On a corner amidst the Brooklyn grid of slave-owner streets and black power boulevards a rubber Titanic sinks into the concrete of the parking lot as the air slowly escapes the bouncy slide. Which of this generation’s catastrophes are destined to become future fair attractions, which ones are appropriately shaped to live up to the always amusing death fantasy of a liveried string quartet sliding across polished decks into Atlantic wet. He’ll be early, but better than too late on his first day of work for Freddy F. Cooked an ample dinner for Sergej to eat, made pudding with a real vanilla bean thrown into the mix and stuck a brand new toothbrush into the cooling dessert, for the head of the one Sergej has brought from Berlin is flattened and bent from insufficiently monitored use. Got that one on you, Fee. They have talked to the kid’s mom and fixed a deal for Sergej to be paid 10 euro per model collection, i.e. game he combs through, another item checked off his to-do-list. Ten seemed too much for a prepubescent child to him (as to the kid’s mom) but Sergej has become a skilful negotiator watching a Cash or Trash, as he jovially conceded afterwards. “Extracting the models and normalizing them is indeed quite complicated, though, so I think ten are really appropriate.” Normalizing, where does he get that, Michael smiles to himself. Let him have it. Some titles from his library had to be hidden for violence, sex, language, and adult themes, when he had gotten Sergej to take a bath, he had reassembled his furniture, removing the critical game discs from their jewel cases. All in all, he left Sergej in an alright state: Freshly bathed, primed to be a healthily fed, a dentally groomed big boy.
Brooklyn’s Broadway is his favorite street, enclosing him in the cozily deterministic constructions of fin-de siècle engineering. The subway viaduct could come crashing down on him but at least there would have been signs to read. Cracks in the plaster, bending girders and squealing joints. What a leisurely time to be alive it must have been, where every change came as cast-iron manifestations, plain and clear to see, and world wars announced themselves decades before. Michael would love to take a job working metal, but his skoliosis forbids. His kind of work is ethereal. 
Nobody waits for him at the address indicated in the emails he has received. T minus ten, he leans to the wall and closes his eyes for a second. Despite the streets being relatively busy, the only sounds he perceives emanate from objects, awoken by flows and momentum, like an empty bag in an arena of supine fans. Nice objects, friendly-faced fans turning their heads slowly like grazing cows. Determined faces of cars on a mission to get somewhere give Michael an orange wink. The passing women and men are mute and dull, their radiance turned to the inside until they will have found a way to separate interaction from contagion. A woman peeks from a fire escape. “You Michael?” He is led inside to the back room of a semi-professional motorcycle shop and left to wait there while his host slash employee question mark is fixing him a hot drink. Half of the large room is painted matte white, floors and walls, ceiling and all, even sockets and switches look like they have been repeatedly painted over. Michael follows the trodden path of dirty grey footprints around an ensemble of four dioramas neatly spaced in the middle of the white half. Rural scenes with farm animals, clay houses, and sheet roofs, occasionally a car plus three or four humanoid figurines each. Tinted grayscale in seemingly inverted not inverted black-and-white. She comes back with two mugs of delicious coffee, lukewarm to not delay his immediate departure on having been briefed. Objectives in chronological order: Put on the HV vest and hard hat and get on the motorcycle with the jerry-rigged truss-frame trailer out back. Go to the construction site marked on the map. Leave the ride at the construction site entrance and show Susan’s badge at the gate. Get to the material storage on the top level at the indicated location. Find a box cutter. Cut a length of fifteen feet from the ten-foot roll of waterproof tarp. Take the tarp back to your motorcycle. Get back to Susan (that’s your employer) before 10 p.m. Help Susan cut the tarp. Achievements, optional but rewarded (cash bonus or bumped rating?): Don’t let anyone see you getting the material. The coffee mug has a trick thick base, the end of the beverage comes before Susan can even finish her briefing. “Don’t you have a box cutter I can take with me.” “I do not.” Michael eyes the hard hat she hands him along with the vest and badge. “You know, technically, this isn’t a proper motorcycle helmet, strictly speaking.” “Get a move on. I’m not gonna have another European lay down the law for me. You understand imperial, right?” “I have a hunch.” “That’ll do. If you get back here before sunset, I’ll throw in a tip. I don’t wanna be here all night.”
 
Some minutes pass while Michael inspects the motorcycle and its trailing contraption. The darkened door viewer might be Susan watching him from inside or somebody else, some adverse hire, contracted to monitor him on his first day of work, or merely the peephole’s privacy cover on the inside. The up-popping app of Freddy F reminds him of his next destination and of the time he has already wasted TÜV-testing the grape colored Honda with a beak like a New Hollywood spacecraft. Steering backlash and eleven years sans practice make the first meters slash yards, you’re not in Europe anymore, a swerving ride, the empty trailer dragging in the back doesn’t help, either. The driver of a pickup the size of Michael’s first apartment is visibly on edge but too concerned for his custom paint job to overtake the careening vehicle. Traffic has been dense throughout the last days but now the streets are deserted, given that he should be hitting the second half of evening rush hour. At Broadway station, a feller buncher is knocking down tents and platforms of a makeshift camp suspended from the J-M-viaduct. A violent rain of household items teems down into the skip below, stray shreds of bright flysheet blowing across the lanes make driving past a victory parade. His motorcycle wants to linger a while watching, the pickup sees his chance and accelerates, veering around Michael, tires screeching. Swearing, honking, metal on metal from the sounding skip. Michael pushes the curious machine to the curb and kicks, its engine coughs, then Michael, too, violently. He has to support himself against a Chinese-speaking newspaper dispenser. Two deep breaths, he looks up and sees the felling head extending towards him slowly. He recedes backwards, sidewards towards the subway entrance, fast suddenly, jerking around, fleeing down the drafty stairs. When the passing train above is out of earshot, he walks back up cautiously, listening. Sounds of seagulls, sounds of wind, the sounds of imagining a quiet city. And through the crack of a window escapes flattened laughter, real funny. The look of Michael on the second to last step, five feet tall with his pinkish hard hat and the unmatching vest makes them crack up even more. He gives the reflecting windshield the finger and trods back to the curb, at least his ride has found some leisure and gladly removes him from the scene. The Honda buzzes placatory and Michael’s not even mad anymore, good one, fellas, gotta admit. But oh, the shock, he is a high strung mammal. Recovering the thought the brutes in the barred cab interrupted, as a matter of fact there are no homeless in the streets no more. Michael shivers with thoughts of evil satisfaction. He needs to act out the utter atrocities in his head to tire his hideous thoughts before they make it to his vocal tract. Fucking racist that he is, fucking bigot, inhumane, subhuman that he is, conceited and tainted with German violence running through his eugenic veigns, spoilt rotten with furtive awe of prime genocides and prime profitable guiltiness, kick him to the curb, rip his aryanized swabian red-white-and-blue tracksuit top, let him strave to death, freeze to death, let him be smushed by a two ton exported KdF car snatching the last spot. Wistful sweet caress of seabreeze like a bride’s train passes as Michael crosses the bridge into Manhattan. Off the bridge he turns right onto Norfolk, which is a mistake, as it shows, his trailer is just wide enough to draw an orange rallye stripe along the side of the double parked delivery van with its waxy rust-proofing. Thank Jeff Preston for it’s only a sub’s dinged up van, she’ll barely notice the fresh mark. Ten first class package lengths further the next dotcom truck makes it clear that Michael shall not pass, and as he peers past the haggard body of the car, a young woman with a baby strapped to her back gives him an angry look. She hurls the dolly into the back and drives on to rejoin the long line of delivery vans creeping up the Lower East Side like an earthworm, its segments opening and closing ranks, a trash truck joins at the end. Michael sees an opening and squeezes past the idling van, it’s driver’s watching Louie yelling from the dash. The next vehicle is again too wide to pass, the leisurely animal blasts kraut at full volume, sweet smoke emanates from the gaps in the shell. Michael however is impatient and his Freddy F app even more so, it’s display is running up milliseconds. Now red as well. With a slow glissando of the engine, Honda says another pause time. Cursing, kicking, at least the worm stays calm. Michael pushes bike and trailer on the sidewalk. “Some gum?” A wrinkled lady holds out her pack, wiggling as if baiting a stray. He extends his hand but she is quicker. “One’s a quarter.” “Are those for individual resale?” “You can have two for 35 cents.” The gum is thick and more chewy than its name suggests, he shouldn’t have taken the bargain offer. Smackingly they watch the carnival parade of delivery vans poke along. Lotta new hires. Here comes the ice cream van, didn’t even bother to cut its chimes, perhaps it serves to lure down the ungrateful upper floor tenants. Another van. Not a van but an old Jetta convertible, creeping at max speed so that the piled boxes don’t fall. Another one. More vans and he and his companion will start cheering. One is vermillion, one is yel-LOW, one has taken another in tow. “Wanna buy something else?” “Ain’t the shop closed?” The Ain’t still makes him feel like a native, aspirated T aside. “I’d lock up for you. Special service.” “No thanks, I’m good.” “Oh, come on, hard-working young man like you should treat himself.” A backfiring GMC fumigates the neighborhood. Michael used to kidnap mob caporegime in Liberty City in one of those. Good times. Cough, cough. He seeks refuge in the bodega his new acquaintance has locked up in the meantime. Light falls through the half-opened roller shutter like a saloon door and Michael hardly makes out the aisles in the crammed corner shop. “Snacks are in the back and at the checkout. And make it quick!” Bars yielding soft with caramel cream sticking to one’s palate while the teeth cleave crunchy nuts or wafers, sweet absolution, but they’re hard to find when his eyes have no time to get used to the dark. The candidate bets that he can tell fifty kinds of chocolate bars by their packaging wearing blindfolding goggles with plastic prop chocolates stuck to their glasses. A stumble and he’s where he assumes the counter. “How much?” “Yes, how much.” “I was hoping for a dollar, that’s all I have right now.” “Young man, you are thinking only about money. Do you have children? Yes you do. You probably have a young girl of your own. Square jaw, green eyes like you. Little bit of a hot-head, like her father. Your daughter will understand that money is just a bad proxy for what really makes the world go round. Most likely she still knows that money won’t rid you of all your debts, and maybe she won’t forget it like you did. It’s one forty-nine, I’d say, here’s your change, I’d say. But today, I offered you a special service, so you owe me. So tell me, how will you settle your debt.” “Would you be okay with credit.” “How will you repay my favor?” “Listen, I read enough of a blog post about the Stern Review that I generally relate to your rap, but right now, I neither have the time nor the nerve to not think about money. If I don’t have to pay cash or currency, even better. But honestly” “Be creative! That’s what you want to be, isn’t it? That’s what you claim to be.” If there would be enough light, Michael would have looked her in the eye defiantly. 
“ Über uns’re Welt solln kommen
Schmerzen Ohne Weh und Klag’
Dass sie uns’rem Herrn genommen
Der einst Schmerz über uns bracht’
Lasst uns uns’ren Schmerz verwalten
Rechtens teilen ohne Trug
Uns’re Schmerzen soll’n uns einen
Einig für’s gemeine Gut ”
Our world shall be befallen
By a hurt without a woe
That it shall be taken from our
Lord who once brought hurt upon
Let us wield our hurt, united
Righteously and without fault
Our hurt shall unify us
Jointly for the common good

The pause after Michael had finished suggested that she smiled contentedly in the dark. His voice, though not unerring on the notes, was still voluminous despite the lack of practice. Plus, worker’s songs have this air that makes even the stupidest of the dyslexic farm hands get the gist of it. No wonder she’s content, a lot of red in the flag hanging out front beside old glory. “Thanks for shopping. Have a nice day.” She couldn’t have gone another day without a customer, without an exchange. The engine is still warm, Michael leaves his hard-earned bar on the exhaust for a minute to soften the caramel. He has a pen ready to help squeeze every last bit out of the wrapper. Tentatively he tries the starter. Where were you so long? Off he goes turning left before he can catch up with the delivery procession. Gooey sugary it sticks to his teeth, he can feel it, wolf in sweet clothes, he must stop at First Park to rinse out his mouth. With his long fingernails, he removes the persistent residue, scrubs the enamel until it shines like the polished bronze of the drinking bowl. Shiny it is indeed. Here, too, all the homeless are gone. Rudy, too. Rudy the well-known citizen of first park that Michael had exchanged a few niceties with once. The baby boomer in a colorful polyacrylic pullover with the ironed white collar of his shirt sticking out had admired Michael’s Artengo running shoes. Same colors as Rudy’s sweater, what are the odds? One in 715 based on the thirteen base colors of ICSS-NBS. Rudy probably must have watched 715 joggers pass on a daily basis, considering he was there on the bench every time that Michael looked out of the hotel room window with a view of First Park, yet Rudy was excited when he saw Michael in his shoes run by. High on the ideas he had for his life in the city and on the adrenaline of a five-kilometer course among landmarks of intercontinental renown, he had turned a couple of laps in front of the stranger, who queried him about European fashion and laughed forgivingly in view of Michael’s ignorance.
The fact that Rudy is nowhere in sight is indeed anomalous. Michael listened to a podcast about the man, who according to the program’s producers had not left First Park in sixteen months because he was not able to leave First Park since sixteen months ago. Michael, too, had only ever seen Rudy on his bench facing the basketball court plus once at the water fountain. Retrospectively he believes to remember the clunky silver trolley bag the feature mentioned. Rudy was outspoken about the fact that he didn’t believe the outside world, i.e. all that lay beyond the quadrangle of green between Houston and 1st, existed, although it was unclear what exactly he understood by that, since he was slash had become so dogmatic about these confines of existent space that they were beyond explicable. The trigger for Rudy’s behavior Michael did not know, as the podcast had deferred the respective answers to a follow-up episode that he hadn’t listened to yet. Its avid followers on the other hand know already that Rudy’s Strawberry-Fields-nothing-is-real declarations had sounded different during the early days of his hermitage, namely “There’s only this park, anyway.”, muttered, eyes blank with a planar stare caught in the court’s fence. They learned that Rudy’s son had been stabbed sixteen plus six months ago, by a kid barely bearded who had little reason but three different thrust weapons on hand for putting Rudy’s son into a coma that ended with the switching off of life-supporting measures after several days. They have listened to the podcast’s producers harassing the parents of the now seventeen-year-old perpetrator, who had been first harassed by Rudy, after the court had shown little interest in the systemic failures that must have fostered the formation of a knife-wielding teenagers like the one Rudy’s son had fatally encountered. Eventually, ratings have scored high, listeners quenched their thirst for true crime drama, a broken soul who gravitates towards the final location of his son, only bouncing back until his momentum reaches near zero. Then he stays where he belongs and becomes a memorial of innocence. Last episode on xxx: Rudy has been living in downtown Manhattan’s First Park since late fall 2018. The middle-aged former fashion dealer watches the hustle and bustle (sic) of the Bowery from the point seven six acres of green on the corner of First Avenue and East Houston. He watches boule, bocce, and basketball from his bench, buys breakfast and lunch from the park’s pagoda at prime cost, and naps in varying nooks on the park’s premises. Rudy regales tourists with anecdotes from his extensive knowledge of New York City’s history of parks and recreation, cleans shoulder to shoulder with the department’s employees Monday through Thursday, and even adopted an upright, intermittently scheduled sleep in order to comply with NYC Parks rules and regulations paragraph 1-04 articles o and p. And so on. Michael gave the episode five out of five, touched by the portrait of the noble savage, purged from all his vices, living for the memory of innocence and the preservation of public green. A man like a filet. 
Michael has scraped his teeth to satisfaction. He is not yet concerned about Sergej. Few times fear has grabbed him in a fit, imagining with sudden certainty that something has happened to his son, otherwise he is little susceptible to parental readings of mundane perils. What he would do if Sergej? God forbid, let’s not go there. If it happens, nobody is prepared. Some go live in a park, some try desperately to revive, a father pulling his own teeth to experience the pain and selfless determination of giving birth to his son, but what’s a molar to a…
There is a place and a time for him. Michael agrees to the suggestion of switching on routing voiceover, to appease the app that has noted his delay. The motor is warm and running smoother now, and also the driver has gotten used to the momentum of the fickle trailing construction. A second pedestrian passes the crossing in front of Michael. Male gaze, she really does not appreciate it, not even secretly, and Michael doesn’t have a visor to peep from behind. She scowls at him and is almost run over by an irate cyclist riding a broken frame held together with an orange e-track ratchet strap 2"x15' 4400 lbs tie down, bobbing with the belt absorbing the uneven street like a crappy suspension. The sun has already disappeared behind the lower highrises and he will likely not make it in time to reap the bonus. Sergej calls. “Michael!” big warning sign in his use of his father’s first name “Can you come home now! There’s something here!” No calming him down with standard phrases and promises (in twenty minutes OR just ignore it OR you can have a mall map (he collects them) slash tv-day slash surprise (unimaginative) OR be a big boy) “Something came in from the market!” what market “The market! THE market!” C-Town “The supermarket! My market!” ah, his market “Please dad, this is not a joke I swear. Can you please come now. I need you now!” Fanfares, spotlight, halo. A chance like this doesn’t come along often. He needs him. But Freddy F needs him to continue 600 meters on East 19th street. Sergej needs him to provide food and lodging at least until the next flight to Europe can be safely taken. Michael pulls to the curb a fourth time, his chance for a bonus decreasing with the streaming decimals of his mission counter. Cereal’s on sale at C-Town, Pasta at Key’s, Nuts are cheap at Bravo’s. Two-eighty plus three-forty-five plus let’s say about three in savings if he double-stocks for two-three weeks is likely to be more than the tip Susan did offer. Even more if he stockpiles, not to forget that he has the trailer. Routing says it needs twenty-nine additional minutes net time driving, add a generous ten minutes per store and round it up to a flat hour: tolerable. All subject to him being able to calm Sergej’s nerves. More of an issue is the trailer, loaded with building site bounty of potential allure and groceries of definitive appeal in a time of thirty-plus minutes of waiting times at supermarket doors, the latter being issue number two. The weight of the two problems grows exponentially with waiting time at the stores. He postpones the decision to when he’ll pass the first market on his way back. “Sergej,” he tries to get his focus “can you tell me what it is that’s there?” “I don’t know!” Sergej yelps and doubles over with despair. “But you know something is there.” Affirmative whimper. “Look, I’m here with you. Whatever is in the apartment, it’s not physically there, you understand?” Affirmative. “Because if it were, you would see it, right?” Affirmative. “But you know it’s there.” Affirmative. “And you know I’m here talking to you.” Affirmative. “So we’re two and this thing is alone, right?” “I don’t know.” “I think you told me it’s just one.” Pause. Affirmative. “I tell you what. I’m gonna stay on the phone, and you just continue what you were doing, and if you see it, I come right away, okay?” Pause. Affirmative. “So I’m here on the phone if you need me. You can just talk to me if you like, or play some video games.” Affirmative. “Put me on speaker.” “Are you gonna be home soon?” “Soon, Gigi.”
Gigi slash Sergej has retreated to the guest room which is only in some way his. This room is full of symbols. In his one in Berlin, all walls plus parts of the ceiling are covered with his collection of mall maps. When he lies on his loft bed, he faces plans of shopping environments in Edmonton, Oberhausen, Dubai, Berlin. Willamette Mall from a game he’s not allowed to play when he turns to the wall. None of these malls he has ever been to, in fact he never even visited one of the centers represented in his collection. And why should he? He strongly dislikes shopping sprees in the physical spaces, where there’s always 1 plus n corners alive with the fluff of 800 plus square meters store area flying in the shoppers slipstream and benches open to all four sides. Only the maps are still of use value, a set of converging ontologies of purchasables, whose lingua franca of commercial design results in a wallpaper of soothing uniformity. The New York City walls he is encouraged to call his own bear one floor plan over the head end. Another plan details outdated nightlife locations between the river and Highland Park and there is a tip bank on the sideboard. This room has another function. Tools unfit for a prepubescent boy are kept in here, too. This room is unstable, could be an office tomorrow, a holiday home, subject to eviction or rubble on a strike slip fault. It’s hard to be at home here. He’d rather be in the living room, rather be in his supermarket, but there’s this presence, the word sounds way too innocent, that he just cannot cope with right now, even though he hears Michael breathing on the other end of the line that ends in the device next to him on the mattress. Not clear if Sergej knows what triggered him. For a split second of a temporary connection lapse he saw the azure ribbon of the skybox’s perfect gradient over #69625c, nothing remained but his lone game character running over alpha. For an instant he saw the adjectiveless emptiness underneath bank holiday’s thin layer of meaning that is the true image of the question forming in him: why all this? Michael runs at the ticking timer’s speed for wages that mean a month’s rent here and a year’s rent there, who is he to contribute to the answer of that question. Mom would be good for a pragmatic answer but timezones forbid. His maps would be a calming sight, if nothing seems certain, Sergej can start with the way to the drinking fountain, to the food court, play out a decision of limited choices and ramifications, pick a store, I want to have that for Christmas. Excuse me? I would like to have that for Christmas, please. Well, if you’ll be a good boy, maybe Santa Claus is going to remember it. Excuse me? If you reach the following achievements, [...], you got yourself a deal. See, even the one mall plan did well. From the flat ULED surface through the crack of the door the trajectory is clear right into Sergej’s right eye socket, to shoot through the aqueous emergency reservoir kept for near dehydration scenarios, into the skull, opening it and drenching the cushions, which will emit it again later when he’s asleep, and the smell of it and his pores sucking its remains will give him nightmares. To close the door completely, to shut himself away in his room, perhaps closing the blinds and drawing a blanket over his head, making sure every limb touches fabric and clamps down the blanket’s ends, with only a tiny airhole as a single point of attack, is however more risky than he can tolerate at this point, since, though he does not necessarily have to face the door to close it, the aggregate actions of turning, getting up, approaching, closing the door, while retaining his gaze that is drawn to the light source like a dying person, the sum of all that makes closing the door seem impossible. And he has to avoid what he saw last on the innocent screen by all means. Option B is waiting until he hears a shot slash his character’s death rattle slash familiar muzak, a ten-track loop of jack new swing playing in the recruiting office, which acts as a quest giver for the game’s battle royal skirmish matches, cues that let him know his character has died in battle, that a new scene must have loaded, and that if it didn’t, the game must have eventually thrown an error. Red on black, white on black, dark mode, night mode colors, colors  of the insides of bank holiday, where even the sun, that first thing that always shines on its companion object, the grey plane, and on everything that subsequently sprouts from zerozerozero doesn’t give light. Sometimes back home Sergej unplugs the screen, shuts the blinds, and turns off the light to then move his face up close to the vents of his console, watching the pure lights of the innards, smelling the PCB and warm dust, listening. He unplugs the ethernet cable, and its power supply is the only link that connects the system to the outside world. When he’ll be grown up, Sergej wants to somehow hook it up to solar power, the first and final constant, and he will be closer to having created a perfect closed system. Not an error striking, but the music from the recruiting office let’s Sergej know that it is safe to peek at the screen. The recruiting office would be excessively cooled if it had a temperature. The many clean desks are placed with good intent, to simulate IRL facilities of its kind, but seem out of place like the world’s longest bar in a backwater hamlet, since there’s never any waiting time and applicants vanish as soon as they step within a defined radius of the one manned desk. With every client, the clerk opens his mouth but as he starts talking the scene will have already switched to the skirmish mode’s loading screen. Watching him working, it seems like he is sucking up the disappearing characters as he is about to start speaking. His eyebrows, that seem to belong to two different sets, move up and down between two extremes of utter surprise and furious anger. From time to time he opens and closes paper file game objects, as if he would be an employee of flesh and blood faking to be busy at work, and maybe his being is indeed closer to that than one might think. Sergej takes the phone that emits compressed noises of traffic and his father’s breathing, and starts a new skirmish match. “You playing?” The heroic tune gave it away. Skirmish matches only under parental surveillance. “It’s fine. For this once, anyway. I’m here if…” A shopping cart with an on-sale heater blower in it shoots out into the road from a store and Michael has to veer wildly to escape its trajectory. The battle area is close to the coast, and includes a stadium-sized area curated by Berliner Festspiele. Unfortunately the commissioned objects on display, artistic value and all that aside, usually ruin balancing of the respective map section, like the Félix González-Torres pile of usable weapons in the middle of the field. This time however not. Sergej spawns at the western edge of the curated strip of land that is now exclusively covered with a single thick rug the size of an airfield with a pattern of tesselated bodies resembling finished opponents of a skirmish match. He’s in a vast, open field, but practically undetectable when he’s crawling. The rug sounds like a rug rubbing against him as he crawls towards the high grass in front of him. The grass’s sounds are less convincing. Michael bites back a curse and the trailer rattles clanging. Running towards a nearby hamlet, searching its shacks for weapons, Sergej becomes momentarily tired of the game, and he feels like laying down on one of the greasy mattresses of the sad sleepover inside the chapel. If rumors about the catholic church securing the rights to redesign every church, all religious sites according to some sources, in the game are true, they haven’t gotten to this one. Sergej can crawl onto a mattress but cannot turn to face the ceiling. He is a back sleeper. Tedious repetition is the game’s weak spot, it hits Sergej now that the thrill of the semi-forbidden is gone. Shows him that the game’s creator is thirty plus raised on binary oppositions. Simple sets of normalized actions allow for easy, reliable comparison and linear hierarchies. Work hard enough repeating serializable sequences, training muscle memory, internalizing decision trees, and succeed deterministically. There’s a loaded handgun next to the pillow and he equips it. Eight shots in the clip and he hears steps coming from the chapel’s vestibule. “How’s it going?” No engine noise, his father seems to have reached his destination. His adversary doesn’t linger on the threshold, Sergej’s first shot misses, the second and third shot might have been on target, but red flashes indicate health loss on his part before he can fire the fourth. “Bad timing?” Michael hears shooting over the line. Better leave the scooter in a side street. 
Blue hour between the darkening facades of the inner city. This year the hues of light emanating from the small downtown windows haven’t made the annual transition from the warmth of candles, Christmas decoration, to the cool of solar-tempered daylight lamps and productively glowing screens. Instead, the lights turned redder, discolored to an extent that the skyglow over the city has turned the color of rust. The blue hour tends towards grape. 
The site fence seems to have no end, not left, not right, only the adjacent buildings visibly mark the confines of the construction site. Static flood lights light the grounds dark red like an opium den, dotted by white bright circles of automatic followspots moving under the grid spanning the area. Every worker has a spotlight, polka dot panopticon. Michael flashes the badge at the custodian’s mirrored window, who buzzes him in, may be a machine. “I’m in.” Sergej and him are both playing war. “Got him?” Sergej confirms. A flick switches and Michael is blinded, thinks of CS flashbangs and how he wondered whether such a magic spell existed, his followspot’s on him. The light’s of no use to him, in fact, two pairs of eyes and counting are already on him, his vest was convincing enough for admission but reflects infinite colors in the spot like a prism instead of scarlet as the supposed coworkers’. But as he picks up speed the burning white circle glides smoothly unfailingly fixed to the top of his head as its center. He accelerates, sidestepping, trying not to attract any unwanted attention, stops behind a column that, alas, almost vanishes in the brightness of the light. So does the step, and he doesn’t see it and trips, falls, and throws his badge and carrying straps far from him. Suddenly it is dark again, the red light hides the blood coming out from the scratches on his left and his chin, which he doesn’t feel through the cotton ball numbness, instead he perceives the precise edge of the spot cutting his hand at the thumb into hot and cold. None of the injuries seem to be permanent, plus he has found a way to flee the eye of the roomba above. Michael leaves the badge at the column’s base to pick it up later and vanishes into the safelight. The monochrome flattens the third dimension of his surroundings and he almost fails to notice the breathtaking drop of the immense excavation that stretches far into the nineties, stopping like a cartoon character with his toes testing the void. He stumbles back. “Paul said he broke the fear of falling. But I think he’s a big mouth.” “What?” Michael has to sit. “He got VR goggles for his birthday and spent the first weekend falling. Now he says he doesn’t know fear of falling.” “Lucky him.” “But do you think he’s telling the truth?” “I don’t know, Serge, but I need to concentrate now.” “I don’t believe him.” The pit is level, safe for one thirtyish-story block with only its structural work in place, that must be the place. There’s ladders every ten meters leading down to the foundation. “I just fell. And I lost health. I don’t believe him.” Sergej walks along the base of the rampart he dropped from. Of course the middle age is manifest in bank holiday, too. There is no existential need for a history, but the thought that this compelling world is ontologically dependent on something human, is calming. Bank holiday is a world of actions and countable goods, the freedom of forging arbitrary objects of desire is yet too tempting to spark searches for alternative objectives. Survive and amass, honorable fights mano a mano, building and expanding, romantic visions of feudal Europe from 2D sprites and single-player campaigns. No enemies since that first one he shot in the chapel. Sergej found a purple sweater in one of the houses, which he equipped despite its unfavorable visibility. Characters in Bank Holiday are neither male nor female but of a perfect androgyny that no serious player comments on anymore, whoever does so clearly identifies as a noob. Initial reviewers described character animations as quote unquote sassy. The sweater is ludicrously oversized and squarely ironed, seen from afar Sergej might be mistaken as a dead pixel. The base of the excavation vibrates lightly with a subway passing below. Its sheer concrete appeases Michael’s guts shaken with vertigo. As he hurriedly walks towards his destination he keeps a hand out sweeping along the pit walls to reassure himself of another one of the dimensions he navigates. The lack of familiar points of reference clouded his judgement of the missing distance to the target building’s towering skeleton. Particles have begun to fall, could be snow too delicate to cool the skin it lands on, or ash, or dust from street level construction. Sergej’s character is 255-255-255-white, whiter even than its eyeballs, that have a yellowish tint as if the amber irises bled into the white of the eye. When Michael and him first created their shared avatar, they set its complexion to a web safe dark brown, but when Paul, Sergej’s little friend of hip heritage, found out that the helping hand of his parents junkyard project had no stake in the struggle, he took Sergej aside to quote unquote educate the boy about the power structures around cultural appropriation. As opposed to his father, Sergej got the point and adjusted their character’s appearance. Michael tried only once to reset the skin to its original tone because it’s just a game, Serge, but eventually ceased resistance when he couldn’t resolve the inconsistencies between the issue at hand and his fatherly advice about overall tolerance. Teeth grinding, forsaking personal liberties is a hard thing to do for Michael, who earned them (his opinion), including the hard-won freedom of capitalism he lays claim to by means of descent. At times he thinks back to the first days of Sergej’s life, when his skin was dark from neonatal polycythaemia, but Michael still went to Fee’s dining hall to rule out any PoC-contenders to his paternity. He wishes Sergej would have turned out black, so he could have worn his son in his baby carrier like a triple-A badge. He wants to leech on to that culture like he tapped the identity of Wanda as soon as it started yielding. Sergej is yet too young to feel sweeping embarrassment for his father but he would shield his face in his hand from this fact. He doesn’t feel in any particular way with respect to his own complexion. He would like to have a beak with a scarlet stripe like a herring gull. That would solve his nose, too. Sadly Bank Holiday doesn’t afford that option, either. “Have you been to the planes north of the range of hills between the graffiti cliffs and the moon shaped pool?” Neither does the game label its locations, specifying places is like giving directions to foreign tourists. Michael is turning snow blind under the red floodlights. “You mean where the inferno mine is?” Michael knows Dante from an interactive web visualization. “No! Not there!” “Don’t yell at me!” Irascible hot-red vision, like a cheap visual trick. “The plane of a thousand silos.” “I haven’t.” He has reached the shade of the structure, the frozen-blue concrete slowly thaws as his brain readjusts its white balance. The phone in his pocket vibrates with a notification from Freddy F, who is well aware of his geolocation and motion data, and therefore his slow progress. The building has the stairway of a tsar’s palace, cutting straight through seven floors wide enough for an expressionist worker’s crowd, Michael pants in a gallow’s stance at its top, not even halfway to the upper storey. “Everything okay, dad?” Four rounds of the same drill, and already at the fourth he’s convinced he has developed asthma. A chilly gust almost robs him of his balance, the idea of rolling down the thousand plus steps in a tightly curled up ragdoll ball round and round the seven flights to start again like game over, like no continues. “Fuck.” A prompt for parental correction but the father only emits a hiss because, apparently, obviously, he is out of shape. “Sorry. I just died.” Sergej should have been patiently crawling across the body patchwork of the artistic rug, but he ran upright, an easy mark against the clear sky for any player squatting slash proning on the carpet. “If you can’t deal with defeat, I’ll have to,” breathe, “block skirmish mode.” Can’t believe a thing about the new jack swing. Sergej leaves the recruiting office, he’s tired of fighting anyway. “I just have to deliver the materials, then I’ll be home.” The material shed is a forty foot shipping container with an impressive bend having been dropped from great height at some point. It’s half colorless and wait a minute. Two, no three, spots illuminate the far end of the unit, giving away, as Michael deduces, the presence of three workers, or at least their badges inside the container. He ducks behind the opposite end and peers along the curve of the corrugated side. “Shush for a second, Serge.” “I wasn’t saying anything!” “Shh!” Three workers between him and his bonus. Question: Would the dental floss, always at hand in Michael’s everyday jacket, wrapped around the neck of a worker withstand the struggle of a dying man? Michael bolts as his phone vibrates, but this time it is not Freddy F, it wasn’t even his phone. The regular purr is coming from the container’s metal. Pleasantly cool against Michaels ears hot from the excitement, the steel whispers, listen, Michael, listen how peacefully they snore inside the forty foot belly. The storage’s contents do not justify security beyond the door’s rusty latch, which besides does a marvelous job, creaking, screeching, calling attention to unauthorized access. Michael times his cautious turning of the lever on the sleeper’s inhale. A car alarm honks a steady pulse to the duet of bolt and palate. Halt. Slightly, tentatively, one of the spots is moving. On the line he hears Sergej talking to somebody, likely Paul or what’s his face. The car alarm has been replaced by some ethereal pad-like choral sound impossibly to locate between the sleek buildings. The sound of the stars. Now, Michael. He gives the bolt the last push and the door swings open lube-drunk silent. No muzzle, the dark mouth belongs to the roll of tarp, there for the taking.
Earlier Sergej successfully extracted a motor pool of seven late nineties car models with names that would make a hilarious copyright lawsuit. The cars are provisorily stacked out back while he accompanies Paul’s mom alongside other collective members in their search for appropriate spaces for the vehicles. Paul is present, too, but without so much as turning his view towards him, which is not particularly surprising, since he used to be condescending in the collective’s presence before, and his jealousy of Sergej’s car procurement mission only worsens his feeling of inferiority. It didn’t help that Sergej tried to appease him by painting a drab picture of his repetitive work. Paul construed this as a lack of both gratitude for his employment as well as veneration for the work of the collective and stopped talking to him altogether. He wanders off through the back door of the hangar past the stack of cars topped by the light blue model his grandmother used to drive. That is one of the few facts that supplement the distant worm’s-eye view memories he has of his father’s mother. The sparse facts around property, filmography, and dental hygiene rig up her spectral impressions in his mind’s eye. Part icon, part scarecrow, part bending down shadow with huge smiling lips. Michael’s heavy breath pokes out from the noise gate. The overhang of the adjacent structures increasingly eclipse the rear junkyard, though the collective goes out of its way to expedite their vertical constructions in the backyard, likewise composed of stacked up collections of outdated game objects. But the seven heavenly palaces rising around the collective’s plot of land grow and grow and grow, hovering. An avatar on one of the rifty ledges is trying to hit another in the junkyard below with fish from the island’s bodies of water. His target flees in Sergej’s direction from the Lluvia de Peces. 
The tarp is heavy like everything in this container, like the container itself, as if a diaspora of fossil materials were striving for a journey home. Persistent snoring from the dark end of the storage prompts Michael to continue swiftly, he’s dragging the tarp off the stack, has providently placed his jacket to cushion the fall of the roll’s end, but while he got that force of physics covered alright, he carelessly overlooked the fact of friction dragging the underlying box dragging the underlying box dragging the underlying box and so on. And therefore, as he looks up after having cut the required length of tarp with a cutter knife conveniently found along other tools in the container, no retarding momentum there, Michael faces an overhang of boxes so unstable that he has to think of water sloshing in a skyscraper toilet. He folds up the cut tarp ever so carefully. “Dad! Help!” Michael jolts up and around, towards the stairway. “Dad!” The top box tilts past its tipping point, spilling 1,998 miscounted silver washers, their oxide layer refracting the light like raindrops as they fall down faster even than Michael rushes down the seven flights. “What’s happening?” Over his own gasps, he hears a voice like throat cancer talking, complaining. Stray washers are still hitting the ground, jingling bells, he better takes the opposite direction and hopes for a second exit. Something concerning neighbors, that much he can make out. Sergej remains mute. “Serge, I need you to get yourself together.” No answer. “I’ll be home, soon.” 
By the time Michael has found the second exit, the sobs in his ear have died down. The sound of dishes clinking and cabinet doors slamming indicate that his son has meanwhile washed down his cause of distress with tears and cookies. Squeak goes the turnstyle and he’s out, with sixty minutes left on the clock before his salary will start to drain with the grains of the hourglass that appears on screen once the employee exceeds her time limit and causes queasiness with millennials and their precursors. “Somebody spoke to me!” Don’t take chocolate from strangers, don’t get into their cars or basements. It was the figure running towards Sergej under flapping fish falling that had opened its six-phase-animated mouth once it stopped within earshot and uttered with an eerie, terrifying sound of thousand voices speaking not like a choir, reverberant and organically offset, but dry and synchronously like machine-hijacked vocal tracts: “Keep your fish! Let me be!” That voice had caused the terror that made Sergej once again dart into his room and dive under protective covers. From the small mound of cushions and comforters, a limb protruded, groping blindly around the bed for the television’s remote control that Sergej had put there after his first scared retreat as a precautionary measure, and a muffled song sung shakily emerged. Die Gedanken sind frei, because Sergej sings in the school choir and his music teacher is sixty plus. Sie fliegen vorbei, because he had to eliminate the sound of the thousand voices that still rang inside or outside his head, he was not sure. His hand found the black bar and haphazardly pressed all buttons in reach until Sergej was positive that the many-voiced mumble coming from next door belonged to a fighting family of expats among plastic plant pots and outdoor glass tables. Slowly he emerged from his fort, Michael was still heard over the phone on speaker, always panting, how he hated to see his father running, recently. And recently, he is always running, even within the limited expanse of the apartment that barely holds sufficient lengths to accelerate. Sergej tried it for himself, dashing towards the television, calculating the stopping distance of his non-non-skid socks to put the grey torus that still houses the thing with a thousand voices within reach. Sergej put the Bank Holiday torus in the ash-stained saucer on the windowsill that Michael keeps for smoking guests. Heavy breathing over the line. “Somebody spoke to me!” “I’m almost home, Serge.” The wind has freshened and is blowing paperweight trash into Michael’s trajectory. He’s gobbling up printed matter, dirty napkins like bonus coins with his front wheel. No bonus. Instead he’s running on the last seven digits of his allotted time. He speeds through the empty streets and maybe it’s the accelerated mass of fifteen feet times ten of tarp that pushes the flagging scooter further, this time the engine doesn’t fail. Susan greets him at the door, though it isn’t impatience that left her waiting there but Freddy F tracking Michael’s final sprint. His ETA is not an issue, his failure to retrieve the badge more so. She gives him a meagre three out of five stars, even after he has helped her to cut the tarp without so much as a conspicuous glance at the hour and slash or a broad hint at his scoliosis. Plus Freddy F mercilessly records his delay, and suffixes his username with a euphemistic turtle emoji. Michael makes a mental note to contact service tomorrow and rushes back home, running, he almost hailed a cab, not that he reconsidered but there simply aren’t any around. He had to cut off Sergej once he got to Susan, now his son doesn’t pick up and that could be a good sign, but chances are it’s not. Because what was it before that scared him, a voice? The aural band between them was reassuring, but fickle, Sergej had glitched out on him several times during the night, like the deceiving evil demon showing through, sometimes he had lost him between tall structures. How should Sergej be sure it’s Michael ringing and not the thing of a thousand voices. Who knows what phone-themed horror movies Sergej is familiar with. 
The apartment is as dark as all the other windows on the early riser block. Morning shifts, all around, at most an insomniac’s bluish screen glow filters through unclosed blinds. The staircase resounds with the creaky steps and infiltrates the nightmare of a dog behind a second floor door. Michael can’t recollect what he has read long ago in sudden infant death syndrome, even though he spent close to a day being dragged through subject-related mystery show reruns by the autoplay algorithm. When he enters, he diverts into the bathroom as his phone notifies him loudly of an available choice of subsequent gigs and he doesn’t want to wake Sergej if he should be really, unexpectedly, asleep. The toothbrush is wet, Michael knows how a used toothbrush feels after plus minus one hour, and unless his son maliciously moistened it, he must have kept his promise. It isn’t a peaceful scene that Michael finds in Sergej’s bedroom as he peeks in, although his son appears to be sleeping, limbs and covers intertwining tensely as if in a stalemate. Dead phone and tv remote on the far side of the mattress, next to a fileting knife Michael quickly removes and whose presence he will never call to Sergej’s mind. He washes off the dust and falls asleep with the forgotten tea steeping black-brown.

