A low rasp invades the corny ballad, traveling along the cable of Michaels noise-canceling headphones. Michael likes his beard short and sturdy. It would support a car’s weight, uniform weight distribution provided. Snap out and into the please-exercise-discretion-gap. - 
“Any news about my son’s luggage?” Oy! There’s a line here!
“My colleague will be with you shortly, sir,” replies and adds a count to the “assholes” column of her personal customer satisfaction statistics. Back to leap distance, back to an airy piano and to pondering the impending indefinite extension of his son’s holiday visit. Neither welcome nor adverse, inconvenient but certainly the more responsible option. Malignant glances shoot from the front of the line. Further back the limp and dazed from waiting times, that make the two digit EWT-counter over the check-in desk overrun, cannot help but smirk at Michael’s chutzpah. The end of the line is out of sight. This will take a while, Michael. Retrieving some mistakenly checked luggage is going to be the least of their worries. He takes out his phone to survey a game Sergej has been wanting to play for days. “Bank Holiday”. Michael skims some reviews, critics are raving. The download is within JFK’s Fast-Free-plan.
Michael’s battery dies. His headphones’ keep bracketing his head in a private prayer room. This should have happened earlier, he thinks and chastises himself for the thought immediately. Fee had called half an hour ago, suggesting that Sergej should stay in New York, seeing that schools would stay closed and air travel is justifiably advised against. Michael had promptly got his guard up, hands twitch as the cane comes down, but then realized that he did not have any objections, at least of the kind he could bring up opposite his ex-girlfriend and mother of his son. You should be happy to spend time with your son.
And he is happy now, partly because another clerk peeks out from the backroom behind the check in, leaving an object that might as well be Sergej’s long-awaited luggage next to the door. The employee at the desk looks up at him furtively, just long enough to make it clear that she will decisively not beckon him over but leave it to him to confront the pent-up anger of the line again. 
“Excuse me!” Most certainly a teacher, quick to insert herself between Michael and the counter, authoritative and loud, sure to immortalize her accusal, austere but fair, on the CCTV recordings for potential later review. Naturally any interference from the far side of the check-in desk is not to be expected. With the reach of the air rage videos he is about to become the subject of outweighing the expected waiting time, he grimly trudges towards the end of the line.
Michael has reached the beginning of the waiting line’s guide system. Bank Holiday. Michael is and always has been a sterling sucker at video games. Having possessed no digital entertainment systems beyond a radio alarm clock with a broken timer, the formation of his eye-hand-coordination relied heavily on imitation and simulation. Carefully selected friends with lavish allowances that virtuously handled the still angular controllers were the paragons, visionaries that foresaw the brightly lit perspex booths under the eyes of six-figure crowds that would reward the six-figure hours it took to engrave the respective motion sequences into their biopolymers. More than the bulging heroes they controlled, they were the resolute demigods Michael and the other suckers admired. Not a flinch even in the most critical of boss fights, precisely timed sips of transpiring soft drink cans during lengthy combo animations. Michael hid his admiration behind his greasy unimpressed face that would immediately melt like a butter sculpture as soon as the limelight was on him, would contort into expressions moving fast between Buddy Rich drum solo, Center Shock extra sour chewing gum, and premature orgasm. Under the eyes of the idols grooving to the eight-bit battle tunes he tried to compensate for his missing precision through desperate speed, punching buttons at outrageous frequencies, so that jackhammer operators greeted him from construction sites he passed on the way home, his muscles still trembling like his teenage voice. Although his body was a sight when he was playing - his face, his posture taking the hits of the virtual opponents with unmitigated force, his spine that he bent recklessly in hairpin turns as if he believed he could wrest a few centimeters from the turning radius - but it was his temper that made him the perfect opponent in a game. Because as serene as the idols performed their own dominance, they needed a couple of good suckers to impregnate the air with the locker-room sweat of their exertion, to make the room resound with angry cries of self-loathing, to provide a feeling that something was at stake. Michael provided an excellent service in this regard. At the cost of the odd broken A-button he would escalate spontaneous pastime games into vengeance epics of olympic magnitude, crossmedial Sisyphean feuds, immensely entertaining even for Michael until he would once more geronimo into another hopeless battle. The controllers have gotten much sturdier these days and the expletives of Michael’s days are nothing Sergej wouldn’t have already gotten used to. Every child likes to win. The sight of an almost middle-aged man unironically playing whac-a-mole with a buttoned cornetto of ABS plastics is only the bonus content.
By the first turn of the line, the collective drowsiness has infected Michael, drowning out any residual anger. Stress is to be evaded, smoking only permitted occasionally to take the edge of a nearing deadline. His ten-year risk for a first ASCVD event is an innocent percent, although admittedly the risk calculator wasn’t meant for his age. Besides, large parts of Bank Holiday consist of building meditatively, of literal homemaking. He has a history of finding peace in homemaking. The building was the aspect that the feuilletons he has long made himself prefer to gaming magazines focused on primarily. The society of builders, more precisely, the politics of the meta-game. People come for the average survival shooter Bank Holiday entails but they stay with the game for its algocracy, and for many the charts and numbers that document, interpret, and regulate the virtual and real-life resources of the game and its players have become a purpose in its own right. Bygone are the days of the biface organization of squads and factions, bygone is the rule of the higher voice-chat gain and of the persistent caps lock. Award-winning visualizations present the numbers, forecasts and projections predict the likely consequences, LSTM networks defang the malicious spoilsport with a dipping bird at the keyboard. Decisions are made with a well informed click. One reviewer likened her experience of bank holiday's decision making to putting off eye-exams for several years only to discover when putting on glasses that you have been living with minus five SPH. Vice magazine compared it to going to the bathroom on debarking an intercontinental flight with a broken toilet. Michael remembers how he and Juan tried to convince their clan members to put Juan on de_dust2’s short A and when the discussion thread had unwound in an unending scroll of capitalized nitpicking and an incidental dissertation on CSGO strategies, they had proceeded to take practical action, potedly blocking each other intentionally during games, until the whole group disbanded and he and Juan had turned to meeting IRL, which unfortunately hadn’t turned out too exciting coming from virtual anti-terror skirmishes. If they’d had Bank Holiday’s governance tools, arguably it would have needed merely a quick look at the graphs, the charts, sweet, colorful, charts, to come to a decision. They’d still be in contact, wouldn’t that be fun. Maybe Juan would have had valuable advice on how to deal with a difficult child.
Two more turns to go.
Bank Holiday’s player community is the main yield in the mutual give and take between players and developers of Bank Holiday. A ludicrously expensive game in return for unprecedented governance systems to asaservice out to the real world. This is where the future lies. Reducing the wobbly, fluid, vague aspects of life that Fee and her peers get so excited about to a few fundamental agreements to settle. Everything beyond those basic parameters that Fee and her liberal arts majors can endlessly debate in their cooperatives and civic forums, will become mere rhetorical questions, a matter of simple statistics, blessed be the Math that is, as Michael’s high school teacher drilled into him, all around us. Precious data is another argument for allowing Sergej to play the game. Put Sergej behind the screen like a body scanner. Cast his image in data, so that by reading the mold his son will become finally intelligible. Brackets and stars, numbers and smiley faces. A second hope after his son’s initiation to social media revealed nothing but conformance to the premature portraits of his generation. Being proved right when he convinced Fee that Sergej would be responsible enough to not make himself the target of public outrage and slash or cyber-bullying is cold comfort, he had hoped for Sergej to reveal his inmost being for him to study and all Michael got was another reiteration of the same polls, op-eds, charity appeals, memes, skateboarding accidents, stray dogs cockered he had been flicking past in the preceding days already. In a way, it wouldn’t even be unwelcome, if Sergej was really that faceless, suitable for the majority approach. “What Children Like - Ages 10 to 13” by Miles B. Toynbee, top shelf, under the box of deprecated chargers. Perhaps it’s just the fate of his cohort. With their set of native technologies so enmeshed in the control loops of their consciousness, they cannot help but become more conformist. Why shouldn’t Sergej know what to approve, what to voice instinctively, how to use the tools of his time, like Michael knows not to touch rechauds, not to delete system files? Indeed, it appears much wiser how Sergej navigates the medium to harness the collective opinion in his personal formation, compared to Michael’s limited understanding of it as merely another stage for pitchmen and apocalypticists. But regrettably his son’s sagacity stands in the way of getting to know him better.
Businesswoman in coral blazer, family of five, sinister broker, then Michael.
…
He will not make the two-hour trip to 181st on an empty battery. The entertainment is worth three dollars and he gets a decaf coffee with it. All seats are taken but a lone socket has gone unnoticed behind a partition wall. The baristas are making a killing with everyone needing a drink (chamomile, mainly) as Michael waits for his phone to gather emergency reserves. He wants to throw on a bib and join them, be part of the thrill of crisis without being seriously affected.
On the train to Harlem, Michael organizes the upcoming weeks. Tomorrow he has a good workday's length between breakfast and the inevitable nightshift to finish the weekly release before Monday's sprint review, and he intends to make up for the little time spent with Sergej throughout the last week.
On the town, the two of them, starfish shaped itinerary across the city’s map. Though he's certain that his son has never been to a paintball arena, the hope for a reconciliatory esprit de corps as well as the amusing thought of the dismay at Sergej’s “first-headshot” achievement badge on his return to his mother convinced Michael, when Akash proposed to take the kids tomorrow. The arena is located in a raw warehouse in Queens, that would have reminded Michael of Counter-Strike matches on de_nuke with Juan, had it not been painted with thick layers of neon-coloured rust-proofing paint that is supposed to hide the stains marker bullets. Contemporary, clean, surgical warfare. Bullet holes in East-German limestone facades. Paintball will cover tomorrow, possibly also next Sunday, provided he can win Sergej over.
There is an audible rolling of eyes from the local commuters as a busker boards the car, even more so when they realize it’s a sax. His speaker cart does nothing to support his wailing as it proceeds to accompany the soloist asthmatically. Who knows why Michael still fumbles for change, probably the musician hit a soft spot with him, and doesn’t the thin voice of the instrument over the subway rumbling sound like the high-pass wood samples of Michael’s running playlist? Or maybe because any busker, panhandler, or small-time crook might be a less fortunate version of Wanda. When the sax player has finished and passes through the aisle he claims high fives left and right as he collects his bounty, but the car is half empty and he reaches the other end way before the train rolls into the next station, so he stands awkwardly waiting like an actor without a backstage. The subway - stage, sight, and civil-courage sandbox - could easily fill another day just riding around the network: Sergej with maps of different decades in his lap, Michael acing the father role with tidbits of MTA history. But it would need a day off for that, and the main challenge is weekdays now.
Take Monday for instance. From breakfast to lunch he is in a meeting on last week’s progress and after lunch, to be prepared by Sergej as part of an improvised schooling effort while his teachers get their email accounts in order, another meeting to review the morning meeting’s review process. Two meetings that will keep him from providing authority and entertainment for his son. Two hours between his screen and the sky each going dark, and he’ll better be making use of the precious time that the father, the son, and the holy orb have together. Two hours of time a day to figure out what it is that makes his son’s heart beat faster. The boy has been a monk ever since he has been here. Hooded, in Michael’s bathrobe and pastel-colored cottons, he has been spending most of the days secluded in the guest room. Michael had been neither displeased nor surprised by his son’s need to be alone. Pre-teen explorations and undisrupted videotelephony. Sons like to be by themselves from a certain age on. Who are you when no one’s watching? The outlines of single letters left from the vinyl aphorism still remain on the guest room’s overpainted wall. Clearly, nobody, that’s what Michael always responds to the prying platitude. Clearly, you wouldn’t even notice your own existence. To be is to be perceived. Who are you, tree falls forest and no one around, moon only if you look at it. Michael holds it with immaterialism, sticks to his own ineluctable modalities, if only to rule out the existence of all the other phenomena that might lurk out there in the unperceived. He has always dreaded being alone and in the dark. Sergej in the guest room doesn’t seem to mind either, and Michael certainly does prefer the new minimally invasive Sergej to the squeaky bully of bygone days, no doubt. But yesterday, Sergej left a sentence along with his dirty dishes when he got up from the dinner table.
Why didn’t he come back, had he asked, back to Berlin, when everything was exactly the same here. Same furnishing, same names on the posters complementing the same stucco remains on the walls, same screen routine, same views of red brick that had workers dying for it. The hot dishwater had quickened Michael’s pulse, had flushed his brain, and maybe had made him read too much into an innocent question, but the three hypotheses that had emerged from the soapy foam had stuck with him, and he continues to mull them over. One: Sergej does have an interest in his father. Not the dismembering interest of a high school bully bent over a caught cricket, that cruel interest of a child emperor towards his subject. The interest Sergej’s question suggests is one born out of curiosity for something that, even if not necessarily dear to him, must seem to possess a certain importance. Important enough to merit emphasizing with. Two: Sergej does want Michael with him. How else could Michael understand his son’s question, if not that Sergej fails to see why his father should prefer staying abroad, an option that according to Sergej is so obviously inferior? Is Sergej’s presupposition that Michael’s natural place would be close to him a case of wishful thinking or merely the result of the empiric survey of other parents’ locations. Trying to trace his son’s reasoning feels like pursuing yesterday’s bank robbers. Three, plunging into the greasy-gray dishwater from the highs of hidden filial affection: Sergej does want to see the city. The child craves entertainment and what sights, besides unseen bulk sizes and movie seat widths, has he been showing his son? His browser holds biblical scrolls of bookmarks registering age-appropriate venues and destinations that he has been collecting and been regularly rejecting shortly before his son was about to land, because he had been too insecure, too self-conscious that he was tracking schedules, duties, and friend names of Sergej’s in dedicated notebooks, but couldn’t make a confident prediction of what he would truly enjoy. Paintball is a start, but only because he has an emergency scapegoat - it was Akash’s idea. Where do we go from there? 
The city's a mess. Perhaps it’s only for the best that they’ll be on foot or underground. Luck in unluck, just as he was lucky that the truck that reared him on the way to the airport was an amply insured DSNY service instead of one of the stingy nervous wrecks jamming the streets in their jumpy rentals as they try to make it to an airport before the country will close down. Torschlusspanik translates to eleventh hour panic or last minute panic, however, the English expressions lack the tangibility of the German term, the mental image of the gates closing, the boom coming down. Michael’s fear of closing boom gates is officially diagnosed pathological since a couple of months ago, when he first started seeing a psychiatrist and she checked off a long list of ancient greek stems as part of her anamnesis. How she got all antsy when she finally ticked a phobia, glancing at his biography, imagining the abundance of hidden traumas around gates, borders, frontiers. The patient remains skeptical of her Jungian approach, all Michael knows is that boom gates must be firmly fixed. Swaying barriers make him queasy, and gates half opened like checkpoints in South American military dictatorships make him approve considerable detours. Only a gentle breeze is blowing, but in combination with the stress the spontaneous extension of Sergej’s visit brings, the vision of almost unnoticeable movement of the railway crossing’s boom had made Michael’s foot jumpy. As he slammed the brakes a horn was sounding, though not of a nearing train but only of the mentioned sanitation truck behind, whose driver, alas, was as slow at the pedals as he was quick with his hands, an so he compressed the rear third of Michael’s Toyota to make it look even more boxy than it already was. At least he had not even tried to blame Michael for the accident, and had only offered to chuck the car in the back right away in case Michael wanted to dispose of it.
“No.” Sergej is not yet ready to go home. He and Akash’s son, Patrick, are still in the middle of something. 
“Want me to go up and get him?” In the course of Sergej’s previous visits, Akash has developed a sensitivity for the many pitfalls in Michael’s relationship with his son. In fact, Michael chose to involve Akash and his family in Sergej’s visits not only to resolve the leaden bilateralism of their social interactions but because he had expected Akash to be discreet, supportive, and oblivious of any waspy standards of the oedipal buddydom of father and son chucking the ball around the yard.
“It’s fine. How are you holding up?”
“There’s two full-time-working adults in here, three kids with schedules like UN assemblymen, two of them teenagers, and you’ll soon know what that means. I’m happy if I have the strength to tear open a pack of ramen at night.”
Michael listens for movement, for steps coming down the hall, but apparently Sergej does not even consider getting ready. 
“What are they doing?”
“For the record: Never did I neglect my duties as the parental supervisor in charge.”
If they were at least wasting time with inappropriate, mind-numbing diversions. Having the computer’s text-to-speech go off on vulgar rants, shooting animated poultry off a pastoral landscape wallpaper for hours, pastimes of his days that were easy to condemn and gave the parent a welcome reason to pry their children off the respective activity to do something useful instead. Nowadays, it has become hard to tell what’s useful, what’s appropriate. Even a virtual whack-a-mole game today might solve protein folding problems under its hood. Even the comic-sans courseware might run a hidden bitcoin miner to fund tea-party terrorist movements. Besides, Sergej and Patrick are past the point of getting their kicks from games as Michael understands the term. As if defying their increasingly quantifiable reality, they have banned all elements from their playing that could lead to comparing performances. Instead of garnering emotions from the excitement of high scores, they are shortcutting right to the emotions, which is the direct product of their play. Admittedly, this emotional return is not different from the doll play Michael, too, enjoyed with the few Lego figurines he owned. What makes their play seem so alien to him is the way it has been optimized and standardized. Sergej and Patrick connect to strangers by various means to communicate following rigidly specified protocols - sometimes in the form of conversation guides, sometimes in the form of rudimentary made-up sign languages. They meet a fellow player in Bank Holiday and exchange simple objects like colonizers and colonized. They overtake a business journal’s comment section to exchange webcam photos rendered as ASCII art. The protocols supersede each other in viral waves, every week there’s a new trend, and as pedagogically valuable their creativity might be, their unknown origins are deeply unsettling to Michael.
“Are they talking to someone?”
“I believe so. They are always talking to someone.”
“Shouldn’t we be worried about that?”
“I assume your parents, too, were grossly overestimating the percentile of pederasts on the internet.”
Akash’s apartment must have once been a beautiful, lofty executive’s office belonging to the ex delicates factory downstairs that now hosts an expensive gym hung with evocative picture banners romanticizing the exertion of the turn-of-the-century toil. However, consistent with their innocent twisting of history, the gym owners upended the historical distribution of status groups as well, and made it their aim to construct the smallest duplexes of the city for unassuming but credit-worthy social climber families. To capitalize on the generous ceiling height, the maisonettes have been fit under the roof of the single upper floor. Akash’s apartment is a burrow, a midtown skyscraper floor constantly vibrating under the impact of angry fists of six-figure earners on the punching bags suspended below.
“I’ll go get him.”
“Thanks.”
The continuity is reassuring, though. A hundred years and more of always the same ruckus of mechanical parts engaging with one another. No wonder Akash is imperturbable as he is, waking up every day to the sounds of continuity in the precious quarter hour between gym opening and the alarm of his oldest. The low clicking of the machines going precor-precor-precor without hesitation as if all things will always stay the same.
“There he is.” Sergej’s face is blank as always. The face of an unexpected serial killer being ushered down the courthouse steps.
“Hey Serge.”
“Can’t I stay here tonight, dad?” But staying would require a toothbrush and Akash is quick to understand Michael’s look telling him that he should please not offer to go out to buy one.
“We can just go out and get one, duh.”
“Ey, language, little man.” Good thing Akash is still there. Who knows what would burst out from underneath the baby fat of Sergej’s features. The little monster whose return Michael fears more than anything. 
“Let’s go. We got a long ride ahead.” 
“What? Where’s the car?”
“In the shop.”
“But why?”
“None of your concern. Fender bender.”
“Concern my ass. What is this?”
“Hey! Watch your mouth! What’s gotten into you.“ Michael’s voice is trembling.
Sergej, however, is far from falling back into old patterns. In fact, only rarely does he still remember his innocent sadism from years ago in a flash of shame. But having moved beyond the entertaining ill-treating of his father doesn’t mean he vowed to forego his right to challenge his decisions. 
“Listen, dad, if you think clearly for a second, you’ll see that it just doesn’t make sense. You want us to go home only to come back here again, tomorrow?” Now that the discussion is on, Akash stands, Sergej’s shoes in hand, following the arguments back and forth like a ball boy on his first day. “Let me stay here. Please, dad. It’s only reasonable. We don’t have to be on the subway for an hour and I’ll get to go to bed early.“
“Early my ass.”
“Come on. It only makes sense, if you think.”
“And what about me? I can go back and forth alone.”
“Don’t be so self-centered for once.”
…
Picking up Sergej at Akash’s
What could happen? “Display of Michael’s shortcomings”. Sergej wants to stay, Michael wants to get home. The car is in the shop and they can’t stop to get burgers. Usual things. On the way to the airport, Michael got into an accident. Michael suffers from a pathological fear of boom barriers. As he was approaching a railway crossing, he believed for a split second that the boom was coming down, and he jumped on the brakes. The truck behind him couldn’t brake, crashed into him, and ruined the rear axle.
…
Riding back to Brooklyn
Sergej perceives Michael as different, distant. He cannot bring together the Michael he talks to on the phone several times a week and the father that he is facing. Michael, too, fails to translate the familiarity of their calls to the physical encounter. The unfamiliar visible level of communication creates a “sensory overload of overdue reactions” that unsettles Michael.
…
On the first attempt he misses the keyhole, clumsily dropping the key on the bare hardwood floor. The noise reminds him to buy that doormat for keeping out the sand that sticks around the sidewalks for weeks after the last snow. If sand theft is only half the problem last week’s true crime feature made it sound like, smugglers should look into the streets of Brooklyn instead of the banks of the Yangtze river. But it’s not the jangle of the keys that makes Michael go off. Slow down the tempo a moment. As the keys hit the floor, Sergej, being already in a state of utter annoyance in the face of the most recent displays of his father’s shortcomings, reacts with an expression that would be transcribed by linguists as “ | x “, a pipe character - Michael got to know it writing technical documentation and recalls it as a symbol of union - describing the sound of forcefully pulling the tongue back from the incisors, followed by a prolonged voiceless velar fricative, exhaling with a narrowed throat passage as familiar to yogis from the meditational ujjayi breath.
He kicks the door with the explosive force of pent up frustration breaking its way. The lowest door panel breaks from its frame, trapping its assailant for a second, sending him stumbling back into his son. The triangular hole casts a ray of light along the corridor that Sergej follows to his room while his father feigns to examine the damage, furtively scrutinizing his foot, that is starting to complain painfully as the rush of adrenaline subsides. Michael decides that the door can’t be helped at this point of the evening. If he’s lucky, the orphaned sheet iron next to the building entrance has not yet been picked up.  Tomorrow morning the Italians downstairs will wake them with the tangy scents of early morning preparations for Sunday's family meal. Despite the cries of his second toe, Michael passes the kitchen with the deep-sea blue pack of cooling liquid in the freezer, determined to live down the matter the sooner the better. In the guest room, some thousand Lego bricks, a composite collection from recent christmas presents and Michael’s own childhood sets that he schlepped from one self-storage to the next both out of parsimony and joyful anticipation of paternal nostalgia, orbit around Sergej, who is busying himself prying two-by-four tiles from a plate. Michael joins him among the bricks, scanning the dull pre-millennial plastic for teal fragments of the statue of liberty, a complicit attempt of his ex-sister-in-law to get Sergej excited about the city. He offers his son a brick separator, but Sergej only hunches deeper over his work, pushing his nails beneath the plates. 
“Tomorrow we should be going by nine.” 
The clicking of the uncoupling plastic makes Michael shudder at the thought of tips of fingernails folding up. 
“It’s gonna take us at least an hour to Ridgewood and I don’t wanna rush.” 
Another tile detaches. 
“What do you think?”
“I don’t know”
“Well, we said we would meet them at 11:30, right?”
“I guess.”
The radiator murmurs and is turnt too high for the only carpeted room. 
“So then we should get going around nine.”
“Don’t you have to work?”
If someone were to touch the trunk of the overwatered beaucarnea in the corner, the bark would yield and reveal the soft, rotten core and the foul smell of the long-gone plant that stoically keeps retaining its composure. 
“Why should I? Tomorrow’s sunday.”
With the green light on Michael’s laptop constantly flashing, the compact home office stands strategically placed like a beacon at the center of the apartment, visible from nearly every angle of the other rooms, except from the fridge, again strategically. 
“Maybe I should go alone, so you can work.”
“What?”
“I should just go alone.”
A tile pried loose from Sergej’s labor finishes in the jumbled tool cart left in the guest room because Michael judged that twelve is old enough to be left alone around handsaws. 
“Is that what you want?” 
Another tile breaks loose and lands as debris on the English lawn of the rainbow-colored brick house. 
“Leaving aside the fact that it’s completely beyond dispute that I’ll have you travel across town on your own.”
“Akash and Patrick could pick me up.”
“Are you serious?” 
With the muffled steps from upstairs resonating on the stairs and fading, the house falls silent. 
“I’ll take the bus. I took buses before, that’s not an issue.”
“You’re not gonna go alone.”
“You don’t care about going anyway.”
“That’s not true. It’s even my activity. I proposed doing it. Akash and I do it practically every Sunday.” 
One would think a house would settle, solidify under its own weight until it becomes an indomitable rock. 
“Well, you don’t care about doing it with me.”
“Is that really what you think?” 
But then one will notice that it rather resembles a fatigued rubber band, barely holding together what is inside its perimeter, crumbling at the slightest strain, like that time beat cops ran down unit after unit of a tenement two blocks east to corner a trickster that turned out to have escaped through the back. 
“You always make promises. ‘This time we’ll be going here and there’. Always promising, but what have we done so far this time. Nothing.”
“Jesus, is this going to be some grand jury trial? I’m sorry, but I have to work. You do know how that works, work? Can you look at me? Do you know where the money for your transatlantic flights comes from? I guess not, because otherwise you would just bite the bullet and enjoy your time even if I can’t offer you some shore-leave-like spree every day.” 
What has ever permeated concrete or plasterboard walls that was not unpleasant, that was not domestic violence, unwelcome bass or deep-fry stench? These walls are not forever, these walls are barely there. 
“You don’t even make sense. Don’t find stupid excuses...”
“Hey! Language!”
“...don’t find stupid, stupid, stupid excuses. Don’t blame it on some work that you don’t even need to do. I know how work works, and I’ve never seen anyone always working like you do, and they can take flights and even have a car so they don’t have to take the stupid subway that takes like a smelly hour to get someplace where you could have been in fifteen minutes with a car.”
“I’m not even gonna comment on that before you’re old enough to understand the economic realities of urban transportation.”
“Don’t distract! Don’t lie!” 
A fight needs an ample, firm container, a church that resounds forever with the arguments, so that the faintest trace of consonance will resonate eventually. 
“You think I wouldn’t prefer not having to work while you’re here. I don’t know what kind of twisted expectations you have when you come here. That I have some kind of management or record label that supplies sedan and driver plus ample expenses?”
“Don’t lie! You like it! Don’t lie!”
“Why don’t you apply your standards to your mom…”
“Don’t distract! You know what I think? I think you’re just bad at working. You just take ten times as much time to do something as mom. And don’t tell me I can’t talk about that stuff because I see in class how long people can take for simple things. You’re like that! You’re like that! What are you doing? You’re not even writing something interesting like mom. You write code for stuff that nobody cares about. And you take so long to do it. I could do it faster than you. You don’t even get to speak your own language at work. How stupid is that. Stupid! Stupid! Stupid!”
“Shut up!”
“Akash lets Patrick help him with his work. And they are doing cool things. They built a website for Patrick. What have you built with me? A stupid statue of liberty? Putting together a stupid lego set? It’s so pathetic!” 
“Shut up!”
These walls hold two. Two bedrooms, doors closed, wrap around a father, here, a son, there. The two eyes of each, crying to a two-part lament from the unvented radiators. The unfamiliar sounds of the other’s sobs could not make them more alien to each other. Their tears fill up the rooms faster than the salt water can drain from under the door, beds floating in shoreless solitude, the father’s rocking with its passenger tossing in despair, beweeping the loss of an umbilical cord that never tied the two in the first place. This father’s fatherhood is merely the promise of it, embedded in his semen, and he needs his son to redeem it. He needs his son to need his father. Creating man made YHWH a parent, needing perpetual proof of loyalty made Him a father.
Michael and Sergej on their respective beds, respectively lost in the fraying half circle of light the sixty watt ceiling lamp left on in the living room slips in under the door. Hoarse winds go through their weary windpipes and worn out midriffs. The dining table waits in vain to be set, it’s unlikely that there will be anything beyond sandwiches on the couch. Mucus follows gravity along Michaels pharynx as he sits up again on his bed, the floorboards bray as he shifts his weight to get up. The living room displays callously illuminated mundanity in silence. The footsteps above have not yet returned. Passing the closed door to the guest room, Michael squints to assess whether a light is on.
Sergej has abandoned the dismantlement of the tile floor for an elite police cruiser in endless pursuit of a street sweeper along the moonlit berms of his blanket. He hears the water running and Michael handling plates and cutlery. The street sweeper careens down the embankment and makes the turn at Sergej’s knees high-skiing, driver-side low - switch - now the tracking cruiser skids down the buckling slope, losing its roof brick in the maneuver. 
“Hey.”
The police cruiser sacrifices its fender and tail light as Sergej crashes it into his shin. 
“You hungry? I made some bread.”
“Akash made pakoras” 
The scrap from the cruiser now adorns the victorious street sweeper’s roof. 
“Want to come out?” 
Sergej’s posture conveys his indignation. 
“Let’s not…,” Michael starts but reconsiders, ”well, if you want to join me, I’m here.” He closes the door softly. 
He returns with two plates of open sandwiches, cheese plus pickles slash mustard-topped baloney. Michael’s index draws greasy lines on his phone as he skims what is there to browse. Outside it has started to rain though the weather station shows minus one point six. 
“Hey. Do you want to try Bank Holiday?” 
Sergej draws lines into the rubble of the disassembled vehicles’ parts. 
“Well, if you want to join me, I’m outside.” 
Over the persistent stillness of the apartment, the boy overhears the sounds of video entertainment leaking from his father’s headphones on the couch as a taunting whisper mocking the Frankenstein construction he shoves around the fitted sheets on its eight wheels, his isolation.
…
Bank Holiday emerged twenty-seven months ago out of a spell of depression suffered by Maria Teresa de Castro, senior full stack engineer recently laid off after her 9k salary among other things had forced her business on a downswing. Resting against the three-pane-window drawing a bloodless circle on her forehead, de Castro was making efforts to erode the cash mountain the sale of her 2011 hardware wallet, never lost in a three-bedroom whose waste management drew inspiration from her dev-ops pipelines, had yielded with continual orders of room service’s most sumptuous items. The view was dominated by the slate-lined grids of mirrored, non-opening windows that a temporary power outage had deprived of all but the reflections of traffic, the flashing red, green, and yellow lights turning the cityscape into an outsized server room under the dry eyes of Maria Teresa, incapacitated by .3 mg of Triazolam a.k.a. Halcion a.k.a hospitality gift from a Canadian ex-colleague that dropped by when she was on a business visit. She touched the thick glass lightly as if summoning a context menu holding options or some reference at the very least, but nothing did manifest. The increasing pace of her heart rate through her fingertip makes the pane vibrate violently, leading to further anxious tachycardia. She rather goes down to the lobby, falteringly taking one step of the trash-ridden fire escape stairs at a time. The reception desk is crowded with guests of all temper inquiring about the power outage, the bar with those advanced to stage two. A vermillion extension cord hits the carpet just missing her as Maria Teresa steps out from the marquee. Dozens of signal colored cables flung out from the hotel rooms’ windows are swirling streetwards like ticker tape. To the sea! The neatly lined-up generators’ brawling fills the air, a socket breaks the windscreen of the taxi Maria Teresa only just hailed, scouting for another she ducks behind the idle cab, while its driver yells his tonsils red hot up at the vacant windows.
Traffic is dense but the jitney cab’s driver slash benzodiazepine swoon gets her to peripheral blackness in no time. She contemplates calling crass but reasonably diverting Sergio Infante but immediately rejects the idea as she imagines Sergio’s showy enthusiasm at her newest idea for a video game project to blow her money on. The idea demands solitary deliberation, and the fading of horns and combustion engines leaving only the constant murmur of heavy objects in motion sharpens the contours of thoughts and things. She doesn’t even need Sergio this time to make her concepts sound sweeping and pompous, even saying it out loud in her flat voice, making the uncomprehending cabbie ponder booting her out, still would have convinced any business fluent speaker. Her own growing captivation with the game she envisions, simple and epigonic in its basic mechanics, but gradually tying in with the intricate gameplay inherent to the human condition - quote MTC through S. Infante ex post facto - blinds Maria Teresa once more for the outside world, crowding moth-like around the cold neon glow of diesel-run mobile kitchens. Only when the car slows to a stop she reemerges and while they haven’t made it to the sea, she still would have stayed and watched quietly hadn’t they been shooed by the firefighter blocking the street, neck soaked with sweat, behind him an orange surge of wildfire.
…
It eludes Michael. His video game library is kept in the left one of two decommissioned archive racks. The right one holds Michael’s ostentatiously bilingual library of fine-print prose and mimics its twin with astonishing detail down to the arrangement of spine colors, as if the two shelves were some kind of experimental setup, a psychological test to classify the visitors of the apartment by the shelve they turn to. Sometimes he still garners pitying looks as people discover the plastic contents of the left rack, as they hear the implicit confession of having spent 1.80 times 2.10 meters of one’s lifetime in front of various digital entertainment systems. Most of his visitors however, are impressed with the extensiveness of his library, covering a wide range of genres, platforms, and region codes. Perhaps it is just this experience. He has already seen too much to be surprised by Bank Holiday. 
Sergej is still in his room. It is nearly eleven, and while the responsible father on the couch has kept an eye out for a slight shadow emerging, out of obstinateness or consideration he leaves his son be for now. Toothbrush. The game is a regular battle royal title with average graphics plus a handful of supposedly très outré mechanics of character reproduction that Michael hasn’t made it to yet. Players are assigned to one of the five factions contending within the vast game world. They can build structures and objects requiring painstakingly realistic construction times, and thanks to centralized asset servers they can add custom made game objects to their world. Tomorrow at nine, leave house. If Sergej is asleep, should he wake him? Deep sleep. Permanent teeth. If anything, the game’s cross-medial integration of sandbox elements in the construction of the factions’ bases slash capitals, whose city limits grow with the number of quote unquote tourists, that visit the virtual metropolises using a public street view clone, and shrink with every skirmish battle lost to another faction, is an inventive feat. A colossal subpolar data center encapsulated the North American NST-to-CST copy of the universe, which constantly grows with new objects and assets created by its inhabitants. Its strategy of rewarding players for their creative modding has been a pillar of Bank Holiday’s success. A mischievous mechanical turk matches Michael in a squad with four minors already embroiled in deafening, ribald polemics. He turns down his teammates and proceeds alone to scout the abandoned shacks he makes out under the moon for weapons and gear. The first shack stands naked, sloppily layed cinder blocks halfway draped in persimmon tarp. Press A. Offsetting the exposed outside, the door opens up to a tender bricolage of minimal means familiar to Michael, replicating three-bedroom apartments as seen on screen with faux-silk cloths bought from immigrant street vendors as room dividers. Everything seems foldable, dismountable, ready to make room for the next object folded out in its place, like parts of a three-dimensional sliding puzzle. Onion dice under bed, couch, and pillow from tonight's dinner. Automatic rifle on the sheep skin rug. Press B to equip. Red eyes in the door frame, Sergej is still awake after all, now turning to head to the bathroom. Michael abandons his deserving team mates and shows up in the door, he sits on the edge of the bathtub to have Sergej sit on his knee while Michael brushes his teeth for him, but his son’s strained stare ahead frustrates his yearning for reconciliation. He prepares toothbrush and dental floss and hands it to Sergej, who takes what is offered to him wordlessly as he squats on the toilet seat. The mirror is starry with toothpaste spots, Michael cleans it, returning the curt goodnight as Sergej brushes past him to bed.
…
The boys’ big eyes almost match the cow’s on the other side of the glass as it briefly glances over the backseat, trodding along the line of cars. Traffic service warns of livestock on the 278, as if they didn’t know that. Akash is placid as he has been ever since he suffered a juvenile stroke at 32 and successfully battled post-traumatic depression with a terrific therapist or terribly desirable prescription drugs, Michael and him haven’t made it to that stage of intimacy yet. His apoplexy further left him with a bizarre and vaguely Germanic accent betraying his family’s Jersey City accent so violently that it made his father white-knuckle his rosary in sheer horror when Akash first opened his mouth in the recovery room. While he is now jokingly cursing the flustered cattle in all the stops of his native dialect, his condition lasted long enough to catalyze the friendship between him and Michael, who, himself having trouble to maneuver his tongue around English phonology, assumed him a fellow countryman and invited him to watch the German cup final on the Fourth of July. He declined with thanks but urged Michael to join him for the fireworks.
Their seatbelts can barely contain Sergej and Patrick bouncing with delight as they crane to follow the efforts of police and Parks and Recreation to wrangle the herd down the Astoria Boulevard exit. The cows move alarmingly close around the glinting RAV4 but Akash just chucklingly grazes the horn like a Beirut taxi driver for an upbeat honk. The boys low themselves hoarse at the passing cattle.
They have the arena to themselves, the MAGA-donning owner sulkily informs them as he hands them their markers. Only semi-automatic under 13. Sergej weighs the rifle in his hands, examining the exotic tool. Michael chuckles at the easy persuasion, steeples his fingertips, no kidding. “Let me show you how to hold it.” But just as he inclines towards his son, Sergej readily hoicks the gun, drawing a bead on his forehead and yells at him to stop. Only a tense beat between them, then Akash tackles him, playfully wrestling Michael to the ground. Imperiously bellowed commands from the reception booth call them to order and give the recruits the rundown: One. Safety first. Two. Keep your mask on. Three. No shooting point blank. Four. Don’t be a jerk. Michael would have bet that this would have been it, yet the way his son handles his marker he might have miscalculated.
“Teams!” Four other colleagues, all males, have joined the group. Backstabbing Akash does not even tarry when Sergej and Patrick promptly make out their dads as their primary targets, although Michael had plucked up his courage and confided that he needed some lift in his paternal endeavors. Objections are futile, and so they face their sons amongst the paint-splattered crates and containers of the arena.
The warehouse resounds with the stenographic klack of the markers and the excited squeals of the children and manchildren. Third game, Sergej’s team has to plant a paint bomb at a designated spot in the arena’s center. Forty seconds into the game and Michael awkwardly crawls through the twenty foot shipping container that flanks the bomb spot. “I have so heard it said: / That once came together / in single combat” Michael overhears his colleague from continuous integration directing Sergej and Patrick with the effortless congeniality of someone that has nothing at stake in the conversation and he bursts with envy. “Hildebrand and Hadubrand / between two hosts / Father and son.” Michael peers through the gaps between the door hinges. One target, cyan-spattered black bibendum, four feet and a half thickly wrapped, padded and helmed. “Their fittings they fastened, / Securing their byrnies: / bound their swords on” The player turns his back on Michael. Clear shot. “Over the ring-mail” / “ere they rode to the fighting.” The brain trails the trigger finger and misses considering the target it’s trailing on by a split second. Then wailing and a deep seething regret down below. To cap it all Michael’s CI-colleague as the first one to tend to the crying son. Sergej holds his ear, where an unerring bullet has made out the gap, alas, the dreadful gap between the boy’s helmet and his high-collared protective suit, leaving a comically precise pink coating of his right earlobe, and a shock that lets Sergej forget the allure of the newly discovered war games and has him crying - Oh, come on! - for his mother. Michael takes Sergej from his colleague, holds him, cradling his head while talking to him calmly. Unclear whether his son knows the identity of the gunman, but for the time being he lets himself be carried out into the warm sun adumbrating spring.
They stay for dinner at Akash’s, who prepares Aloo Gobi with his wife Reyna while Michael plays Monopoly Junior with Sergej, Patrick and Reyna’s fourteen-year-old, Naina. Sergej makes hay on navy blue and forgets his miscarried warfare initiation. After dinner, Akash and Naina take their guests on a guided tour of the home they made for themselves in their faction’s headquarters in Bank Holiday. Default furniture items lined up along the wooden walls of the too-spaciously laid out room they attached to their clan leader’s Weasleyesque burrow, plus one crudely modeled custom object Naina proudly introduces as her 12-man-hour effigy of the pseudo-shakti statuette Akash placed on the mantelpiece to forestall tedious inquiries about his origin quickly bore Sergej and with Reyna’s chuckled permission he sits at the upright and for a lack of music improvises on gut and memory an etude over the hammered morse code rendition of tomorrow’s covid infections.
 
