When Sergej called yesterday, I almost didn’t pick up. I guess he must have forgot that he pressed ‘call’, because after two minutes it was still ringing. He had every reason to be angry: Even if he had hidden his departure from me until the last minute, my childish vengeance on the virtual supermarket he built up in endless hours of playing Bank Holiday was beyond excuse. The repeating marimba cadence of the call’s ring implied a passive aggression only inanimate systems are capable of conveying. I must have felt in need of a final dispute to confirm our estrangement, otherwise why would I have picked up after the twentieth ring. 

“Hi.” He made a sound as if it had been me calling him, as if I had barged in in the middle of something.

“How was the flight?”

“Okay. They gave us the congresspeople’s meal.”

“What’s that?”

“Sauerkraut and Würstchen.” Was he making jokes about an event so serious?

“So everything’s fine or what?” My response sounded sulky as I heard it coming out.

“Sure.”

He was fine, indeed. Nothing in his voice gave away anger, hurt, or disappointment, and even the fatigue of overnight travel hadn’t left any traces that couldn’t be eliminated by a good night’s rest under his canopy of map leaflets. How could he be so fine if he had shared the same experiences of the last few weeks that left me sleepless at night and dazed in the daytime. With the staggering probability that Sergej is, among billions, the human that is the least diverging mutation of mine, shouldn’t you expect some degree of parallelism. Shouldn’t my sorrows suffice to cause him a husky voice at least, or an air-con cold? Shouldn’t his development be subject to the same rules and conditions as mine was? Rules that had us, you and me, arranged on a sealed pitch of cause and effect, codependent and under observation, like the foosball tables at the youth club. I knew what to feel, what I was expected to feel when you called me from Berlin that you wouldn’t make it home for the night. You knew the effect of surprising me with the present of questionable educational value when you had acted appalled at my wish to keep the suspense high. Or maybe you didn’t. Perhaps it’s me that has been mistaken all the while. Maybe I am the relapse into the unreflected belief of being able to grasp the causations in everything I see, an outgrowth of the normalizing, simplifying, linearizing that your generation thought it had successfully dispelled. I can see myself becoming somebody that desperately needs to make sense of the world, someone that will gravitate even towards the stupidest of bankholidian working groups if it promises to hold answers and explanations for the way the world runs. I can see myself being drawn to half-baked, holistic theories out of pure defiance. I see myself running into the open arms of antisemites, flat-earthers, the JBS, I see myself considering the possibility of Paul McCartney’s premature passing, I see myself suspended in a state just below prompt criticality, too charged with frustration to live a normal life but too craven and lazy to really explode. I am only a few years older than the last time I was starting over, but I have lost the capacity to imagine something more promising in my future. This isn’t rock bottom but merely the new median.

“Wanna play?”

“What?”

“Duh!”

“Bank Holiday?” I was having trouble bringing myself to pronounce the title.

“Mom got me an account. But she said I was only allowed to play with you. And I’m on another patch of the city.” He must have known. There was simply no way he didn’t check on his supermarket. Still I lied, made a final attempt at causing the ultimate falling out that I had been picking up for.

“They demolished your supermarket.” It was a lie too easy to spot. Sergej built his store on the original plot that had been assigned to his account. Anyone but me or Sergej could have destroyed what had been constructed there.

“I know. Paul told me. It’s too far, anyway. I’m building a garden now.”

This is an olive branch I am holding out to you. Talk to me. Talk to me as if we’re subject to the same logic, as if there’s objective perspectives we can assume, as if there’s a ground truth that will always stay the same, no matter what. This is your chance, talk to me now and already your agreement to disagree will suffice as an apology. As tired as I am, hammering and drilling in the daytime, then continuing to do the same in my bankholidian spare time as long as our time zones overlap, chances are good that I can make it through your rendition of our past without getting caught up in another altercation. 

“So you wanna play or not?”
