On November 10th, 1989, in the early morning hours a tiny tadpole poked into your ovum like you would stick a clove into an orange so it would give off a scent of summer and Christmas alike, of home.
When Wanda read this, she smiled. This was, this is, clearly, pathetically, her son. This is him.
You are my mother, you are different from me and we are quite alike. This is how we differ: 
You are said to have grown up in another country. Your other Germany, as I learned at school, was a socialist one-party dictatorship marked by its dependence on the soviet union and the eager cooperation of its citizens to spy on each other. That country’s history came to an end just as your life was about to begin, yet I would argue that its story did not end just then, and you would stress that your life never really began then because mine did instead. And yes, I recall that you always retracted this incisive remark once your anger had subsided, but it illustrates another characteristic of yours I do not share: You like to complain hurtfully, while I merely need to. 
This is how we’re alike: Despite all official affirmations we grew up in the same country. Whatever Germany it may have been in my early youth, it was assembled from the same physical pieces, the same people twenty years older, as yours. This is why I can write about you, why I have a right to write about you.
Each one of us is pertinacious in their own way. Mules couldn’t hold a candle to our stubbornness. You are very much straight to the point, at least while sober, whereas you would meander like a filibuster by the second glass of wine, like that time me and my temp dad at the time fell asleep in the lawnchairs we brought to the banks of the Warnow where we used to spend warm summer nights for lack of a garden, and so am I. We both were teenage parents. However, you became one by mistake, another thing that sets us apart to be added above. I haven’t seen you in three years, you haven’t seen me in three and a half. The last letter you sent me ended up in the same 100 liter trash bag that would also contain the photos of my relationship with the mother of your grandson by the time I took it out to the garbage. In the long line of letters that I started to write to you, this may be the one that I’ll finally send. Let me begin again, a comprehensive history of us.
 
At the onset of dawn, you left the F1 to pass water and smoke, to rest a minute from the Fernstraße still busy with day-trippers, coming and going, veering and honking exuberantly. You ripped through the skins of first frost on the puddles, running for the bushes. Only as you returned to the car you noticed the silence of the animals and the land, listening to the drone of the horns blending into each other. The incessant choir of 3 million voices from FER Ruhla made the earth reverberate and soothed the rush of hormones I was setting free during my first hours inside you.
You expected trouble to await you. Not only had you been out all night, but also had you lost Katrin, likely resulting in a phone call between parents, and when had that ever helped.
I had always assumed your parents would have screamed at you when they were angry. Screamed and yelled like you did. Like you would at me many years later, when you would find me outside sitting on the neighbor’s balcony rail, from where I could spot the sea on clear days. The neighboring apartment had been the scene of a crime the news had covered to an extent that we felt it had been us calling the authorities over the smell leaking from under the cracked rubber seal into the corridor. Actually we had only moved in when the horror had ceased to even make the regional columns of the tabloids you didn’t want me to pick up, but the refurbishment the owner of the apartment was willing to afford failed to stop the sepulchral odors and eerie tales from permeating the adjacent walls. The apartment itself repelled me even more than it did the visitors, whom the pitiful owner tried to get interested in the cherry glaze kitchen and the travertine vinyl sheet flooring with increasing desperation. But its balcony, opening up towards the undeveloped plots beyond the main road, with the north-facing unit dark enough to disappear from view behind the reflection in the door on bright days, became my beloved retreat. I had discovered the vista shutting up Robert, who had dared me to make the jump from our balcony’s parapet to the neighbor’s. The block’s units were too tightly packed to render leaping between balconies an athletic challenge, though the nine meter drop posed one of a different kind and the rectangular tiles of the siding gave the abyss a foreshortened drama. My head buzzed with adrenaline and my chest hurt from the impact on the rail, having gauged the leap to be further, but the sudden gust from the east, that hit me when I turned the corner of the balcony, and the unobstructed perspective, that felt as if my view had unfolded from academy to cinemascope, sounded a consonance in me that made me forget to double dare Robert and had me return to the block’s bowsprit when I was in need for quiet and solitude. As the only balcony facing north on our floor, it offered a precious calm, rare to find in the complex. Behind the parapet I could sit like a half-hidden sentry overlooking the coming and going on the projects’ driveway. As I got older and my light-footed crossings stopped yielding their initial tingle I proceeded to sit on the rail spinning strands of spit to drop on the passersby below. Sometimes you would put up with the detour around the block so you could spot me from the driveway and cause me the embarrassment of having you yell up at me across four floors. Though I think you saw what had me returning there. After all, you appreciated the elusive solitude as much as I did. Then again, you had to make your point, and so you yelled and you screamed.
I discovered that your parents were different in that regard. Never did I witness Opa betray his soft-spoken demeanor. The reclusiveness had been passed by him to both of us, his genome had stood its ground against Oma’s in that regard. Opa knew three different jokes, which he immediately told every person he was introduced to, so he could then, having proven himself to be adequately sociable, dispense with the need for more than an acknowledging mutter when they would cross paths again. The few times I met him before my 13th birthday, he proceeded with me sticking to the same protocol, and it surprises me that I can only remember one joke from his repertoire, the one with Honecker and the GENEX delivery person. As soon as I hit the big one-three, I was deemed beyond jokes, I suppose. However, he continued to regale me with an abundance of sweets that proved much more harmful than the old chestnuts to my hormone-lined self, and a silent, benevolent attention that he rarely bestowed upon anyone else. That time I got upset about his birthday present, that had failed to meet my expectations, and told him nobody cared whether he even came around next year, he exercised his punishment by substituting his silent smile with a wordless look of indignation and disappointment, and it hurt. His gift was a Canon PowerShot A5. He left me at the kitchen table, confused, remorse welling up inside me.
Oma worked for the VEB Autobahnkombinat and had adjusted her voice to prevail against the constant noise of construction and passing two-stroke engines. You told me she was an intrepid Genossin, driven by genuine dedication to the community, challenging the party with fierce criticism granted to her in exchange for a substantial collection of circumstantial observations regarding her peers. I remember: Waking up in my bed at Oma’s from the light coming from the kitchen. Finding Oma shaking with sobs at the kitchen table, you, watching her, appalled, pressing your back against the built-in fridge. You, hugging me before sending me back to sleep, holding me as you rarely did after you had crawled into my bed some thirty minutes later. I remember the images you showed me, trying to explain the gravity of 85,000 secret police agents with 213,344 guns and several hundred tons of records and how Oma was involved with them to a seven-year-old. The morning of the 4th of December 1989 was damp with a sky so thick with clouds that the chimneys of the Stasi’s office complex poured black smoke like an inverted faucet onto the grey shroud. Although the black fumes coming from the teleheated building stirred suspicion here and there, the streets around the brick building stood deserted and bleak. If someone would have put her hand against the umber stone she would have felt the heat radiating from the building, from the basement, from the heart of the apparatus, orange-glowing to the point of busting, fed by five minute shifts of stokers coming in briefs and safety boots and leaving with all body hair burnt clean off their skin. The oven almost burst with the heat of burning paper, gobbling up one file after the other. Maybe it was then that the documents recording Oma’s unofficial collaboration fell victim to the fire. Maybe it was later that day just before the alarmed citizens led by the Women for Change stormed up to the last floor, that one of the Stasi officers dropped her file into his own portable shredder. The black and white picture of the cooled off incinerator vomiting ashes in hangover haunted me as a backdrop of my nightmares to come.
You doubted that Oma could have provided anything beyond mere gossip, since she was anything but a confidant. I think you didn’t want to admit to yourself the importance of well respected informants like her, who turned gossip into ironclad proof in the ears of the responsible officer. You stopped trivializing her nightly confession only when it occurred to you to make a film about her collaboration.
When you walked up to the roughcast house with the cherry windows early that particular morning, you were hoping that your parents would still be asleep, that against all odds Katrin had gone through with the old reciprocal sleepover trick, even though she had stolen away without notice when Katrin had gone to line up for the bathroom. Isn’t it funny how your selfish individualism emerged immediately once you had first set foot on Federal German soil? But perhaps you weren’t selfish yet and you left Katrin merely because there, on that night, every person was deserving your undivided dedication, as they welcomed you like a long lost friend and sister. The unreal scenes you steered through, set in a country that to you some weeks ago had amounted to geopolitical ambient noise, for which you had shown neither contempt, interest, nor desire, and that suddenly lay open to be conquered, removed you completely from all context of manners, values, and sex education. At five you were fucking someone, at six you crossed the bright lit border crossing in postcoital sobriety.
The kitchen’s warmth made your glasses fog up, so you only heard Opa’s repeated interjections of incredulous Neins into the news on DDR Radio 1. Oma had left the house at five as usual, still unwitting, and she would not return before 9 p.m. that day. Your night became the first secret in many years you got to keep.
Katrin kept quiet about her fleeting hours in West Berlin, both of you tacitly assumed a course of events similar to your own for the other. It didn’t require pretense to once more display amazement when you drove to West Berlin with your parents the following Sunday, the same way as you did not need to act shocked rediscovering streetscape dirt and misery starkly lit by the hard light of day. Your discomfiture over your homely garb was equally honest. The Sunday was to remain the only time in the West you would spend with Oma und Opa, and already on the drive back the complementary country had been superseded as a topic by the inner workings of the worker’s state.
Some days later you had dinner at Katrin’s, whose parents let you watch West after the dishes had been dried. Everything in the parlor of Katrin’s family was made to last, the solid wood shelves seemed grown from the hardwood floor aeons ago, hefty cast-iron lusters hung like stalactites from the high ceiling. The furnitures’ promise of crushing or outlasting you made you feel like the small television sitting between heavy monographs, ducking its antenna under the varnished oak. The anchorwoman’s impossible attire bewildered you, as did the serenity with which she went on about incoming East German shopping tourists as if they were a low moving in over western europe. The Socialist Unity Party of Germany prepared to shed their scorched skin in the upcoming extraordinary party congress. The eastern Mark slumped in value, and you felt a sudden nausea rising from below. You ran to the bathroom as window shopping East Berliners overheard the yuppie reporter announce the impending ruin of their economy to the viewers in his bullish home country. The news of leading western politicians and leading western executives attuning to a frontierism oscillating between the solidary and the predatory had woken me up in my cells. You retched. Here I was.
 

