“What’s up?” 
“What’s with the levity? No script today?” 
“Nah. Turns out that shit was fake. Some elaborate decoy for the competitors. Anyway, I’m being paid. Is this about your ratings? Working hard on not working, aye?” 
“Oh, keep it. Is there anything you can do for me?”
“Nope. I’d say. Going AWOL on your second gig is somewhat of a killer. May I ask why?” 
“I was feeling sick.” 
“And for real?” 
“I got lost.” 
“Oh, come on! What do you expect me to file here? German fairy tales? Hansel and Gretel?” 
“I panicked, okay?” 
“Shit. I’m sorry.” 
“Any way that we can mold that into a medical emergency?”
“I’m afraid it’s still going to be difficult. Did you contact your GP? By phone would be fine, considering.” 
“I don’t have a GP.” 
“Jesus, Michael, you’re not twenty anymore. You have a child at home.” 
“The appeal?” 
“Won’t make it far unless you come up with a physician that attests to your condition.” 
“Don’t you know a doctor? Don’t asian families breed doctors?” 
“Like Germans breed racists? No, Michael, unfortunately I can’t help you out there.” 
“How am I supposed to get a doctor’s appointment right now?” 
“Be creative, they have hotlines for those cases now. Anything helps in your case. And yes, for the record, I’ll see what I can do.” 
“Alright, thanks.” 
“How’s Sergej?” 
“Oh, he’s fine. He’s having the time of his life.” 
“According to Patrick he’s becoming a douche like his father.” 
“Even better. Nothing serious, I hope? They were still hanging out online, last time I checked.” 
“Trifles.” 
“Good.” 
“Anything else?” 
“No.” 
“But seriously, Michael, make an effort. Once you’re out, you’re out. And who knows where Freddy F is going.”
With cable pre-paid for the year, with their sans-serif family-sized stocks, in a city that has solidarily suspended all costly leisure activities, in an apartment that may or may not come within the eviction ban, Sergej and Michael have accommodated themselves to the novel uncertainties, that in truth only seem new, like a shrink-wrapped trinkets unearthed in a move. A move might be due any day now that Michael has ceased to pay rent and he takes care to retain a presentable appearance between eight and eight in case his landlady should come by. For now, he’s banking on his dewy-eyed map rather than his potential rights as a tenant, that he hasn’t looked into, yet. Still he packed a couple of boxes and bags last night with winter clothes and household redundancies, and fell asleep checking for flights and transatlantic mover services. In his dreams, they took the car to the port, he and Sergej, to remigrate in a twenty-foot-unit stocked up to its ceiling with palettes of Poland Spring. When Sergej tore open a pack to quench his thirst, the bottles started to leak and fill up the container, and they had to swim their way across the ocean in a pool of ten-step-filtered spring water. His legs still feel sore, but maybe that’s just a delayed reaction to wandering around the ex-mall’s sprawling maze. The fizzing, joyful pain of work having been done, delightful chemistry, like the protein congealing in the thumb-thick omelet frying in front of him. Closed gyms, curfews and billions of oblivious hens have led to a glut of eggs, the hens are drowning whole continents in viscous yellow streams, mountains stand out from the heavy sea like the sparse cuts of bell pepper Michael afforded for their breakfast. When they went grocery shopping on his day off, Michael allowed Sergej to lay on the crate rack of the cart, headfirst and streamlined so that he would grab the special offers in the foot space. They had availed themselves of the reduced store traffic and Sergej’s delight even relieved Michael temporarily from his parental prudence. With ample stocks of eggs and unpopular greens, home brands and a six-pack of no-name coke that Sergej clutched to stabilize them when they almost skidded into the jam section, Michael is still free of debt, leaving aside the outstanding rent. A generous credit line forestalls the exposure of his lies in response to Sergej’s occasional inquiries about his father’s liquidity. Nevertheless he needs money, and now, alone with the pan hissing at him, he keeps drawing greasy renditions of his unlock pattern to refresh the application of Freddy F. 
“Hungry!” 
The answer to his son’s moan comes out too harsh, too irritated for the encouraging morning. It’s not just the money that puts him on edge, there’s something else, but it isn’t Sergej. At some point of his absence from his son’s life a series of switches must have been flicked, that made Sergej into the mysteriously serene, independent quasi-young-man with an inexplicable patience and respect for his father. And since Michael refuses to believe in folk psychology, and that it indeed was his absence that made his son’s heart grow fonder, he’s deeply suspicious of any development unless it’s explained in a blurb from his sloppily studied shelf of parenting guides. He doesn’t want to jinx it slash injure Sergej by confronting his son directly with the fact that he was his father’s most hurtful bully. If already the memory of hitting his childhood stuffed animal face-down onto the railing of his bed, making poor Mickey’s resin eyes splinter still turns Michael’s stomach, how would Sergej feel if Michael brought back the countless instances of contempt and rejection so plain that Michael’s friends not only noticed but even seeked distance from him because they couldn’t believe that such disdain did not have its grim justification. Perhaps his compassionate son is really the product of a reprocessing, a Vergangenheitsbewältigung already ongoing, or perhaps his son’s clemency is not even compassion but merely his contribution to a tacit bargain that promises independence, a break from constant mothering - even though that’s not exactly what Michael knew Fee for - and an apartment with salty snacks and unsecured wifi. Don’t jinx it. After all, being frank, there is little urge in him to get to the bottom of his son’s convenient transformation, anyway. The scars won’t heal so easily, not even in these weeks of co-solitary confinement. The scars are thick and scabby for a reason, and every wondering thought about Sergej’s benevolence brings back the memory of that pudgy, handsome face, oh what a darling button nose, but what hateful gaze, how distorted the lips forming that crushing utterance on that hike in Romania: I don’t wanna see dad. I want dad to walk behind me. No quarrel preceding, just causeless, consistent rejection, bile thickly trickling, forming a puddle, a lake, a black sea. And the forgiving, even tender side that Sergej has been showing lately is nothing but a float for now, a yet unsteady attempt to overbuild the dark water with a lagoon city, piecemeal and thriving like the bankholidian capitals. The eggs are pale and mealy where the pepper arteries don’t reach. 
“Hungry.” 
Every look at his son is reassuring. Even in the annoyance, the reproachful face of his son right now, there’s absolutely no resemblance to the hateful expression of his younger self. 
“It’s here! Stop bugging me.” He’s on edge, right, what about that, then? Must be Freddy F, after all, who, right in that moment shakes Michael’s phone into nervous vibration. Can he hold a hammer? Can he swing a nail? Well enough to justify minimum wage plus tips if applicable, Michael reckons. The gig must be handyperson work or construction but the description is silent on details. Purpose is for the one who pays. Five is the time to clock in, another late shift, another reheated lunch. “Can you handle another couple of hours with your old man gone?” He nods in time with his chewing. Dust rises in the searing sun streaming in through the windows. Temperature skyrocketed this morning, and with it the pulses of the city’s inhabitants bursting from their overcrowded apartments into the streets. On the neighborhood’s sidewalks, the snarls to defend one’s distance are delivered with smiling eyes beneath the shades. The trees and plants explode their stamina in pollinous mushroom clouds and fill the air with sticky white reminders of airborne contagion. The whole house is vibrating with the stomping beat of a disco tune thumping somewhere downstairs. 
“What’s the job?” 
“Construction.” 
“Cool. And they ask you of all people to help?” 
“Funny.” 
“Can you bring some cereal for tomorrow morning?” 
Michael is of the paper boy generation, prone to fall prey to the recruiting campaigns of underpaying delivery companies that halo the hard, honest cowboy work of the lone rider. The reputation of hard work involving strength and power tools on the other hand suffered from the association with certain construction sites in Michael’s youth, whose lunching crews confirmed his insecurity about his walk and posture. Sergej, on the other hand, thinks rather little of the honorable profession of hauling heavy physical objects across the land and already before he became immersed in the virtual DIY-frenzy of bank holiday, he had hoped for his father to discover in one of his parenting guides the home-improvement activities that Fee doesn’t let Sergej partake in. Perhaps once the hammer has been forced in his father’s hand, they will move beyond twisting potato battery wires without pliers.
“I’m gonna mate. I have a date. I’m gonna mate. I have a date.” Sergej keeps repeating his sing-song of words he doesn’t understand, according to Michael. 
“I expect to see greasy marks in your school books and not only on that controller.” 
“But pa-pi, do you think I touch my books unwashed?” He coils head-down on the sofa, laughing and resuming his inappropriate rhyme. He starts to garnish it with words that Michael wouldn’t have thought to be in his son’s vocabulary, and that quashes his theory that mating in bank holiday is an abstract process, entirely removed from the flesh-colored world that invaded the device screens of Sergej’s classmates so rapidly that the news of the parent-teacher conference reached even Michael. With feminism as a pretext he pushes the thought aside, that he should have quote unquote the talk with his son. And perhaps that date of Sergej, if it’s still the same as when he tried last, is right in saying that bank holiday is better than the majority of the other ways of learning about sex. Akash’s little brother continues to struggle with visions that befall him in near-orthogonal sex positions, visions of bulging stud bulls doing anthropomorphic doggy style, like the sheep in the video game that his father had caught him playing and that he bruskly removed him from to abduct him on an ad-hoc roadtrip up the Hudson, where he would stop at every village to ask for any inseminations happening. Michael remembers the inevitable walk-ins on his mother and her boyfriend in the one-bedroom that didn’t have a hall to deafly sneak past the shaking fold-out couch in the open kitchen, and screws his face into a lemon bite. 
“When are you going?” 
“Can’t wait, eh?” 
“Can we go to the Atomic Museum before?” 
“Museums are closed, dummy.” 
“Not a dummy, mummy!” 
“We can check if we can access their garden. If you’re lucky, they haven’t closed that, yet.” 
The replica of the trinity site’s obelisk rises black against the rounded clouds over the bay. Yellow barrier tape around it indicates that its child-safe climbing holds are not to be used today. Apart from the inaccessible lookout, none of the exhibits in the museal garden is off limits, not even the clearly unhygienic coin-operated AR-binoculars, that let its viewer drop Little Boy on the island, and that used to render the resulting marred skyline, while now that the last belligerent board members of the museum have relented, only color-coded zones of destruction are overlaid on the cityscape. Already the last two times he came to town, Sergej had urged his father to go to the quote unquote womb of the bomb, as Time Out called the pistacchio-shaped, rose-gold building of the museum. Wanda still has her fangs too deep in Michael’s neck, and he cannot bring himself to believe in the power that, according to the museum’s awkward tagline, will have saved us twice. The no-nukes functions were the ones with enormous banquets of spelt cakes and salads. However, he’s enough of a Gen Y nihilist to entertain an acquiescing curiosity, a morbid fascination for nuclear horror shows. It had been simply a lack of time on his side that had stood in the way of previous visits. 
It hasn’t been quite clear to him why his son has fallen for the museum’s ads of pastel-colored nationalism, but now that he thinks about it, atomic death perfectly fits the playful studies of his son, who collects maps of largely defunct shopping centers, who draws plans and charts of aberrant past progress in his naive and colorful Henry-Dreyfuss languages on ever-extending fold-out annexes, without any want to finish them. He sketches infinite obituaries. Never forget. Sergej is standing in a granite pool in the midst of a column of steam blown into the shape of a mushroom cloud. A light breeze blows the mist over towards Michael at the launcher button. 
“Another one, dad!” 
“You’ll be soaked.” 
It is unusually hot for this time of the year. Michael launches another blast and joins his son in its epicenter to cool his sweaty neck. Sergej’s hair collects the moisture in smooth, sand-colored strands, and Michael has no use for a sick child at home while he needs to be out working, so he propels Sergej over to the sweltering pan of a commissioned art installation. Seventy-two metal plates, engraved and embedded into the lawn, that collect the heat of the day and pleasantly sear Sergej’s calves. But he’s already up and around, trying to make sense of the giant mind map of life, death, and fission. Even without nuclear disasters it’s only going to be harder for his son from here on. Tracing the nodes of their family tree is revisiting years of renewal. All of the family babies were delivered in the ascendant of an auspicious future. Even when Wanda was born, her parents faced the inauguration of the SED’s new secretary general with confidence. Sergej was born in 2009, the year that 2008 hit with full force and Michael lost two student jobs in succession to the crisis. Michael is little superstitious, but he doubts that it will be easy for his son. 
“Has your hair dried yet?”
Sergej is unresponsive, rapt in contemplation of the glistening floor panels. Michael shakes his concerns and stretches out belly down on the warm metal to dry the back of his shirt soaked with sweat and atomic water vapor. A small fleet of empty tourist boats floats by and as Michael follows their stoic cruise from the corner of his eye, he falls asleep roasting on the enigmatic nuclear map. He is woken up by Sergej, who wants to leave, urgently and suddenly. “Something wrong?” Sergej points a pianist’s finger at a small group of rust and soil veterans, bandana-donning, red batik and blue jeans, badges and patches unintelligible but predictable from a distance. 
“I don’t think we should support a bellicist venture like this park.” 
“Did they tell you that?” 
“I should have considered that before we came. Did you know that they had to print their obituaries on small-print insert slips because there was no more space in the parish newsletter for all the cancer deaths they’ve had?” 
“I’m sorry, Serge. Who?” 
Upset he keeps wagging his finger at the receding group. “Them! They came all the way from New Mexico to protest.” 
“And to protest against what? Context, Serge!” 
“Jesus, dad! Why are you so ignorant,” unclear whether that ‘you’ denotes only Michael, “Nobody cared if the residents of,” the wagging pans towards the dark obelisk “Trinity Site would be contaminated.” 
“Oh Serge,” there it goes, that involuntarily condescending smile of compassion and relief that this is the reason for the hasty departure and nothing serious or bathroom-related, “you are so right. You’re right. Let’s go.” And then his drowsy, tipsy, sun-drunk state fools him into adding the grandfatherly carelessness “But, you know: There were reasons at the time to do so. Someday you’ll understand.” 
Sergej stops dead in his tracks. “Give me the keys, dad, I’m going to return alone.” 
“What?” 
“You understood me. You’re so self-centered, you can’t even think beyond your next,” what could it be, “tax return. You have no authority to tell me what I will or have to understand in a future that you have no idea of. I need you to hand me the keys because I would like to be alone and am very much capable of riding the subway independently, as you should have understood in the last few days.” 
“Whoah. Easy. Can we take a step back for a second?” 
“No,” Sergej’s determined calm is what alarms Michael the most, ”you are using deliberation only as a means of delaying, and I don’t need that right now.” 
Michael is mute. “Michael,” hearing his first name through his son’s mouth is eerie and more affecting than any thoughtless insult could have been, “I am simply asking for you to make up for your belittling, patronizing stance. As I said, I am perfectly capable of making it home. You can take a walk and return later. Give me the keys.” 
A part of Michael is certain to awake back in the boiling pan any second. It is that part of him that makes him hand over the keys. His son walks off, stops, comes back. “I would also need some change for the subway.” Michael surrenders his subway card, too, and his child is off, and the awakening doesn’t happen. 
It was a brief second spring, the few days of intimacy, of a lasting illusion that he was in some way indispensable for his son. Yet again, Michael remains spurned, although this time the matter is less personal. Sure, Sergej is particularly annoyed at his father’s behavior, but his anger merely expedites the act of detaching that would have proceeded even if he wouldn’t be, if Michael would have had the chance to be the father he wanted to be. Another harmonious couple of weeks and the recurrent estrangement would have really hurt, though it could never hurt as much as the first time, when, above all, there was no reason for the little, chubby arms shoving Michael away. This time, it’s only natural for his son to drift apart, to disentangle himself, and in the light of post-nappy sobriety, Michael permits the realization that the days spent together did not suffice to completely erase his desire for a timely available return flight for his son. 
However, for now, Sergej is still here, and worries about the imminent consequences of a falling-out fill the emotional void where grief about his son’s estrangement should have resided. Michael needs a minimum of compliance in his delicate situation. If the mood is already smoldering, soggy bulk-bought cereal becomes a combustion agent and too many incriminating romantic souvenirs from women other than Sergej’s mother are too hastily hidden that a malicious rummager wouldn’t find them. “Sir, do you have a minute?” Full moon disk, pale and marked by craters of past acne, rising in Michael’s view. Meteorites strike the moon’s face at sixteen miles per second. The dark, watery pools of the eyes flow over with the impacts of Michael’s expletives. Little Boy had the force of a small meteorite. Little boy stirred his father’s emotions enough to cause an unpredictable tantrum, making Michael’s fist rise and shiver as he hisses at the chubby woman, who is holding her chipped signature campaign clipboard out to him, to get quote unquote the fuck out of his sight. 
Unfaithful, Sergej got hold of the next best partner out to mate. His need for distraction won’t tolerate any further delay, and bank holiday’s parallel universe is beyond monoamorous obligations. Barely a word penetrates the silence of concentration before the battle. Sergej and his partner matched in the stale list of a third party plugin. Good luck have fun. The scene is unchanged from his last attempt minus the parents, who after the tenth tick of the clock are still out of sight. No words but only heavy breathing in Sergej’s ear. With a subtle thud, the parents arrive. All sound is the force of their movements, the parent’s silence is, like IRL, the most menacing. Again, his companion is the first to fall, ribs poking through the fallen avatar’s back. Does he still dislike his father? A last-minute sidestep saves him from another heavy limb falling. Did he ever really dislike him? Running without a reference in the snow blind blankness, the thumping steps make the loose pleather strips buzz, that are flaking off the speakers. Does he remember his little short-thumbed hands beating, his stubby legs kicking as if his fury needed all fours to drive his father away. He’s turning in quick serpentine paths because rumor has it that it’s the most efficient way to get face to face with the parents while staying out of their reach. Does he remember that time his parents gave up and his father got out to take the train home with tears in his eyes because his son was using all means - words, sounds, violence against everything including himself - to banish Michael from the car? He climbs like a palm tree picker up up up the legs of a parent to cling to a point of the body that cannot be swung around to send him crashing to the floor. Does he remember nights when he would grant his father to lie next to him and Michael’s face melted like wax under the hot tears that his body released as he was dropping his guard ever so slightly? He drives the short, sharp teeth deep into the flesh of the parent, until the red and the ring in the audio make the pain palpable: Hardly imaginable that human bodies can squish flat like his avatar against the parent’s abdomen, though perhaps the lethal kick of the other parent drove all solids of Sergej’s progenitor into its partner’s intestines. Its health is low, Sergej notes before the screen goes blank with death. Good game. The kids are up for a rematch.
Slightly ridiculous but endearing how Michael stamps with every step like a comic book jinx, with his hands in his pockets and little shockwaves of pollenous dust rising around his sneakers. His nostrils, too, exhale tiny plumes of pollen that have collected in his airways during nap time as he puffs off the residual anger from his blowup. Sergej must already be home but Michael keeps prolonging his walk along the A train stations that are calling him with their cool, musty breath from the underground. To the beat of the thumping steps he repeats to himself the reassuring circumstance that it’s tough times for all families everywhere, and his mantra helps his mind to slowly drift off his concerns. The city seems more and more like bank holiday these days, minus the skirmishes. Beneath the subway viaduct, extensive oriels and mashrabiyas protrude from the facades, made from sold-out plywood or compensatory branches and twigs from the storm-shaken parks around. Michael jumps in terror, as a bare foot breaks through a particularly shabby floorboard only few feet overhead. Smart builders have searched the connection to the viaduct itself, although each passing train shakes their annexes into tremors that leave Michael walking in a rain of dust and pollen that rill through the cracks of the protrusions. Harvesters, like the one Michael has seen on his first tour with Freddy F, are nowhere in sight. Only in some spaces pushed-in planks suggest desultory broomstick protest from below. Bank holiday’s main menu has a counter, showing off the ever-increasing counts of objects and object-instances in the game. Many players report a considerable uneasiness when they watch the two ceaselessly rising numbers and it seems that even though bank holiday’s server farms only marginally expand in physical size, not few have a hard time convincing their minds that there is really nothing, pure void, in the space that the growing mass of items require. Michael, too, tries to skip the main menu screen as quickly as possible, although it is not the idea of displacement or constriction that give him the creeps - indeed he is virtually a claustrophile and he appreciates the embrace of the wooden eversions along his route that anyway displace only air no one one wants to breath and sun no one wants to see - instead it’s the rolling numbers, of increase and decrease alike, that upset him, that rob him of every successful delusion of control. However, this particular uneasiness doesn’t rank high enough in his list of fears and fixations to become subject of his infrequent therapy sessions, that he saves up money and waiting time for. Curious discomfort. It’s always spinning anthracite disks with debossed white numbers that he imagines when he sees the bankholidian counter, like the ones on the cheap bicycle locks, stiff, breaking off finger’s nails on their notches when trying to set the code in minus temperatures. They spin at impossible speeds, would grate away whole fingertips if Michael tried to stop their movement. He wouldn’t even mind the lock not opening, after all, stasis is all he secretly wants, but a lock needs to behave like a lock, he wouldn’t have populated this era if it weren’t the age of unprecedented determinism. Large numbers aren’t the issue. Large numbers are pools of packing peanuts to slouch or hide in, to peeve the cat with. Large numbers at best mean abundance and at worst they are intangible and therefore soon irrelevant. But the urgency, the tenacity of rising numbers, large numbers that increase, augment rapidly even, that’s something that gets to him. Six, seven, thirty-seven, thirty-eight, the keys jingle as they fall, again, but this time the kettle has been vented before, for a moment, Michael just stares at the wad of keys on the floor, only to pick it up with the sound of an elderly uncle rising from the coffee table. Sergej waits inches behind the door, startling Michael, who drops his keys again. Sergej is bouncing on his grip socks with cheerfulness. 
“I made a progenitor.” 
“Not cool!” 
“I already made another for Patrick because he couldn’t handle it.” 
“I wasn’t trying to patronize you, you know. You can’t just run off like that.” 
“What? Dad! We have a progenitor. It’s super fast and agile. You wanna play? You can play if you want to.” 
It’s unclear whether A, Sergej is too excited to remember his brusque departure, B, he hides his abashment behind a smile so wide it reveals one of his last baby tooth gaps, which makes it close to impossible to hold a grudge against its bearer, or C, he insists on the absolute rightfulness of his exit and merely condones his father’s misconduct in light of his celebratory mood. Michael has roughly fifty-five minutes until he has to leave for work and no energy for further arguments with his son. The saggy sofa welcomingly embraces his tired body and laughingly forgives Sergej’s headfirst dive onto the passenger seat. The streets on the way to the in-game recruiting office have closed up over their dashing progenitor. A sledgehammer breaks through the flooring above and the tender face of an avatar peeks down into the alley as Michael passes. 
“I’ve found out how to do it. It’s actually not that hard. Making Patrick’s progenitor was super easy.” Sergej rotates on the velours as he details the strategy that only marginally interests Michael but keeps him from work-related brooding as he holds out for an opponent on the grass planes their faction has recently conquered. 
“When can I have my own avatar?” 
“You don’t even have a credit card.” 
“When can I have my own credit card?” 
“Ask your mother.” 
Spinning dials running up numbers on the online credit card balance. Someone from their faction comes running over from far and Michael playfully keeps him locked in his gunsight, grinning as if he cannot help falling for simple games of power. Seconds after Michael is dead, and a FUCKING STRIKEBREAKER in caps, flanked by squads of exclamation points on either side appears appears in the post-mortal chat window. 
“Do you know about this?” As if Sergej hasn’t seen f-words before. 
“Heard about that, yeah. Just respawn.” 
As Sergej reports, some players from either faction are protesting a lack of gratitude for their service of protecting the war-weary citizens of the factions’ home cities, ensuring that they can build in peace. An expectation, that is absolutely absurd, and, according to Sergej only exposes the simplemindedness of players favoring the combat-oriented aspects of the game. Firstly, the cities’ builders build faster than any army can demolish, plus, secondly, it is only obvious, OBVIOUS, he stresses, that the game’s publishers have no interest and thus, Sergej really says “thus”, no intention of ruining the game for thirty-plus percent of the players by letting a faction’s home city be bulldozed. “Right.” Michael is back to brooding, thinking of work in t minus thirty plus the time it takes him to get there. The in-game politics of bank holiday have never been his cup of tea, back in his days people didn’t have the time nor the energy to go beyond pounding out insults on their keyboards, cracking with potato chip fragments lost beyond the keycaps. Although when Philipp got married, impossibly grim-looking, sunken in his oversized armor that shone like dishwashing soap and mother-of-pearl, Michael and his clan mates had prepared in painstaking peer-to-peer coordination an adorable wedding album of faked family photos featuring the couple’s avatars. Still, his tolerance for social frustration is too limited to last beyond a peek into one of the game’s countless meta-tools, forums, discussion groups. The one time he tried was enough of an experience for him. The pale, skinny textbook-nerd Michael imagined the speaker to be, laid down discussion rules in an irritated sing-song for the first timers. Everybody stuck to the rules so diligently that Michael felt obliged to point out the inherent dangers in that, he believed he as a German should know that better than the Americans on his server cluster. He left halfway through the meeting. Michael prefers sneaking and shooting. Perhaps he should have given it another try, after all “meta-tooling infrastructure” is not a working group known for beginner friendliness and every group has a different flavor. According to the countless plagiarisms of a now lost original blog post with the lame title of “A hitchhiker’s guide to BH communities”, the rough typology of working groups distinguishes three types (another victory for standards and specifications, as the bankholidian saying goes, alluding to one of the most long-standing working groups in the game): Darwinist groups, relying on aggressive real time rating and removing of participants within a steep hierarchy, Waldorf (the no-right-angle-Waldorf, not the salad) groups, building on strict community rules enforced with the purring passive-aggressiveness of bad kindergarten teachers, and finally the self-explanatory Anarchist groups. None of the above sounds bearable to Michael. Shooting and sneaking. 
Unlike Sergej, Michael has not yet stumbled across one of the countless communal activities taking place in the shrinking gaps between the piled-up building material of the factions’ capitals. Like cautious dissidents, the groups, consortia, teams, collectives, squads move from location to location, wherever a wall can be penetrated to make space, or a roof remains unbuilt on for the time of the meeting, discussion, workshop, lecture, match, conference, trial. Often the fluctuating members are the only breadcrumb trail to the venue of a specific event, particularly when it’s hosted by the more privacy-minded of the players. Jain Gardening, Advanced Buckminster Fuller, Modeling for Peripheral War Zones. Many a group disbanded, because the tranquil beach section where last week’s meeting was held had turned into a waterside block of condos with low hanging, suspended walkways bouncing with incessant traffic that would have made a rush-hour subway car better suited for a brainstorming session. Admittedly, many of the hobbyist clubs merely foundered on their own quaint niches, that in light of the unlimited alternatives failed to fascinate beyond the droning welcome addresses. Of those who have not yet disbanded, many assemblies spend half the meeting waiting for and or giving directions to stragglers before they spend the second half searching for next meeting’s venue in the circulating predictions of future sprawl of the city. These problems commonly serve as the go-to excuse when it comes to the notoriously deferred pirated instance of bank holiday. Rumored to congregate in the underbellies of the factions’ cities, the piracy working group has produced a handful of short-lived keygens for the game, that have been repaid with countless myths and messianic hopes in their endeavor of creating a free and distributed copy of the bankholidian world. The prophecy of the land of the free-to-play, monospaced on ascii art scroll, has been for long the most recent life sign of the working group, which is, perhaps, judging from the sulky libertarian overtones in the brief manifesto, for the better. In the bankholidian climate of creative exaggeration, this sparseness of information has yielded a substantial canon of tales and legends, of working group members convening in abandoned houses on skirmish battlefields to pass information between the factions’ cities as if IRL messengers didn’t exist, of tube-fed coders in forgotten hospital wards run by the working group to allow their members to become completely immersed in their tasks, suspended in a hyperreal confluence of excretions, victuals, and bitstreams like the alleged homeless human guinea pigs in City Hall station. Of course Akash has met someone from the working group. Of course Sergej’s little friend Paul knows where the next meeting takes place. Bank Holiday’s publisher charges by direct debit, the terms and conditions are verbose and convoluted.
Michael’s phone jerks, vibrating as Bank Holiday’s monthly invoice is arriving. Freddy F’s notification rings only seconds after, reminding Michael to give the speeding progenitor a rest. Sergej comes from the bathroom chewing on his toothbrush in an alibi demonstration of dental hygiene.
The bus on the corner is like a magic bus, appearing out of nowhere at daring speed, off the schedule that Michael thought to have been interrupted. The few riders have been driven apart by fear of contagion or sense of privacy to occupy the four corners of the kneeling bus and Michael hangs suspended between two support slings and the counterforces of his co-passengers in the middle aisle as the bus defends its pole position. Motion sickness has never been a concern of his, and he trusts his brain to handle the stable view of his phone’s screen more than he trusts his arm to keep him upright in the veering vehicle. The unbearable user interfaces of quote unquote every online newspaper he has ever seen, make him stick to his socials for any news between the weekly print news he gets on Fridays. His subscription is outrageously expensive but the thumb-thick German issues crammed in his anorexic mailbox’s mouth bestow a sophisticated extravagance on him as a tenant (Yes, there is someone to impress). Read how this widowed cleaner of dairy tankers made a fortune in smart logistics. Thirty-nine hot startups in decentralized dry-cleaning. Make your morning routine into an executive elevator pitch (What?). The seven chakras you need to know for economic sucess (sic). The bus hits a prolonged green wave and its motor sounds become indistinguishable from the ambient track in Michael’s ear. Then the driver slams the breaks. The sudden motion change makes Michael swing almost horizontal as he frantically clasps the support strap, and while he manages to hold on, his shoulder becomes potentially dislocated, or maybe it’s only a slight strain. The thump of something heavy hitting the front of the bus has been audible even over the screeching tires. Michael discovers his phone at the front of the aisle and collects it. Clear, yellowed bumper cover and a five dollar note behind the rubber as a lucky charm. He cannot discover any unfamiliar cracks, his attention can fan out. The wailing outside is so loud, it’s astounding that the noise didn’t get through to him before. No siren, not a casualty either, at least counting only the physically harmed, of which there are, a look around, none. The howl comes from a curbside child, probably Sergej’s age or slightly younger, and Michael might have dismissed the crying as unrelated if the bus driver wouldn’t have bent his heavy frame forward like a sumo wrestler to look under the bus from the opposite side, making a face of condolence and fatalistic indifference mixed with slight disgust. All passengers have gravitated towards the roadside windows, but whatever prompted their driver’s reaction is hidden below the underbody. Michael cannot stand listening to the wail, or perhaps he wants to distinguish himself from the gawkers. The remains under the bus are neither a dog, nor a cat, more like a ferret or weasel and almost certainly feral. Death is cruel but this consolation will be manageable. Michael squats next to the boy. Definitely younger than Sergej by three, four years at least. Even better, death is simple at that age. However, the matter is complicated by the fact that the child does not seem to understand any of the languages Michael is familiar with. The bus is about to depart, and since Michael is uncertain what the child has not yet seen, he crab-walks sideways to position his body between the boy and the road. Big eyes still wet and flickering on him. His outstretched index collides with the slow-moving fist-train of his right while he nods upwards looking questioningly. The boy nods feebly, the communication seems to work. Though weren’t there eastern cultures with reversed yes-no gestures? He gives it another try, interlocking thumbs, flap-flap-flapping the wings of a flesh-made soul upwards. Big eyes. Cheeks shining after a downpour. The wings close, they make a bed for Michaels sleepy head resting on it as he whistles the sound of sleep. No use, but at least no tears, either. To keep the child from peering past his frame into the gut-stained road, Michael proposes a walk with a careful leading hand on the boy’s back. Probably the child is feral itself, walking with strangers, crying for pests. Maybe it really has no language and merely reacts to the sound of Michael’s palliative monologue, that addresses the rampant construction around them for lack of a better topic. So much new space and yet not a soul in sight, even behind the windows, bead curtains (very frequent), and panes of greased paper, in the openings, cracks, and loopholes of the structures only inanimate objects are showing. Laughter from somewhere, at least someone’s not dead. A pair of fast food delivery drivers speed past them on e-bikes. Michael tries to signal them for support, inconspicuously as to prevent upsetting the boy, but they only leave a trail of napkins in their wake. However, it’s the napkins that come to Michael’s rescue, getting the boy so excited that, without any warning, he jumps into the street like the weasel before. Cute cartoon ostrich in a cap, offering a soft drink the color of his neck. Perhaps the paper is much desired bedding for the child. But the boy proves Michael wrong: For one thing, he does speak, torrentially, suddenly, pointing out details of the colorful animal print to Michael, counting the gathered stack at the speed of an underworld treasurer in a vowel-rich tongue Michael has never heard before. For another, the boy’s excitement seems to spring from the completion of some sort of collection - one finger plus wagging napkin stack plus closed fist means completed collection to Michael - and collecting franchise paraphernalia sounds more like a rich kid’s extravagance than a pauper’s carefully chosen hobby. Still Michael has to smile as the child presses against him, bouncing with excitement like Sergej does, too. 
With the bus long gone and no other in sight, Michael realizes that he has squandered his time buffer and will again be late, is already late in the eyes of a spoiled employer who expects five minutes to get the heart rate down before shift change. He waits for the boy to finish the presentation of his haul and says an awkward goodbye with a weird bow that with a malevolent eye could be deemed racist. That it was the child that filched his keys from his pocket will never enter Michael’s mind. Must’ve lost them on the bus. As long as the phone is still there, key to his keystore that holds access to his Freddy F account that opens employment opportunities that unlock the potential to a debt-free apartment among others. The big thirty-nine dry-cleaners still wait behind the lock screen. All of them men, very clean-looking indeed. Remarkable how independent Sergej is at his age. Though Michael would argue that he, too, has been (he had to) when he was at his son’s age. But not less remarkable, rather more so. He must have overlooked this exceptional trait of his son in previous visits. Their plus-minus weekly phone calls held little opportunity for Sergej to showcase his independence, their occasional joint gaming sessions only insofar that Sergej would have left to do other things by the time an interrupted transatlantic connection would have resumed. Witnessing his son’s development from a distance, his one eye was constantly on the lookout for manifestations of his exceptional sperm in his child, the other scrutinized the boy for flaws, for signs of the ordinary, the unimposing, that would make his son’s absence in his life more bearable and at the same time absolve him from having scarred Sergej and of having impeded his becoming a normal boy, a child not only free from any sort of visible trauma but also free from extraordinary abilities that were likely to hide trauma, too. And for the most part, Sergej paradoxically has managed to satisfy his father’s contradictory expectations by being extraordinarily average. So normal was Michael’s son that none of his behavior, his problems or desires hadn’t been pinned down and explained in some parenting guide or blog. Sergej has eccentric hobbies, but not too many and he cares about soccer, thank god. He has talents and was good in school, but still average enough not to give teachers any bright ideas concerning gifted and talented education. He meets demands like a train schedule, reliably without overachieving, and spends his time with the same mind-numbing activities his peers do. He wouldn’t mind a call from Sergej now, regarding some minor issue, asking where he keeps the raw sugar, so that Michael could tell him, reminding him to brush his teeth after. But then again Michael is fine with a little bit of calm before his shift. 
His phone is fine, no interior damage. It senses the incoming message like a cat’s tail. “Your next job?” plus an incompatible emoji (is there an update Michael missed?), writes Akash under a link to an article Michael scans while walking. The founder of their old company collected capital in the low six-figures for his new business, that offers quote unquote crowdsourced mobility for location-based games. Michael’s remaining commute would earn him point zero zero four units of a presumably useless virtual currency, and some paying cheater eight hundred ninety meters to fuel the development of her Pokémon, gather resources for her Stone Age tribe, or otherwise increase her score in the respective game. Works for every one of the currently popular location-based games except for a community-built metagame of - what else - bank holiday, for which lazy players still need to entrust their physical phones to dog sitters and delivery people in order to record the desired distances. Michael takes no stock in his ex-boss’s pretend money, the Passo, ERC-20 symbol PSS, not the most becoming three-letter combination. However, the company has landed a deal with a local franchise of nutritional supplement stores, and the branch a block from his apartment sells, among countless powders and pellets, legumes that could keep him and Sergej afloat and healthy in certain worst-case scenarios. Walking for pigeon peas. The app is small enough to download within the wifi range of the closed electronics store Michael is passing, but his phone shuts down into a previously unknown power-saving mode that is solely controlled by Freddy F and its instructions to guide him through a quote unquote frictionless working experience, as the dimmed screen reads. Twenty thousand milliampere hours in the back pocket of his jeans but no cable to get the juices flowing. Freddy grants him a jail-call only to his employer, what if Sergej calls and he can’t get through? 
It’s getting dim in these parts. Plywood, iron sheets and laminated fibreboard cover the glass, steel and concrete, and swallow every ray of light attempting to make it to street level. The entrance to number 307 is barely recognizable, the backlit house number shown in Freddy F’s POV navigation now lights a deserted lobby to the lobby made from corrugated iron sheets and separated from the remaining width of the street with a Noren made from the cut-up runner of the original entrance hall. The revolving doors are out of order, the gutted door governor indicates the reason for their failure. “We’re here.” A divine finger is pointing from a hatch in the ceiling at Michael, its many rings click like billiard balls as it withdraws from the opening. The hand jumps out towards him as soon as his head passes through the hole in the ceiling, shiny and enthusiastic it obscures the short figure it belongs to, and only as Michael has finished laboriously pushing himself onto the upper deck, he recognizes the face of the locally famous comedian, who, although he contradicts most of Michael notions of an employer, reveals himself as just that. The room is small in its footprint but high, five meters or more, with its eastern side open against the former facade of the building, its glass panes still show smears of last week’s pollen. The original lobby’s chandelier lights the other three walls, or rather the sheets of paper that cover them from the tidy baseboards to the ceiling. Two walls for the blueprints, sketches, renderings, doodles, drawings, potato-stamped outlines (This is your job, Michael). One for the ornamental waterfall of overlapping, zigzagging menu fliers of hundreds of local delivery services (This is your pay). A library ladder ensures access to the upper sections. 
“You’re late, but in time for dinner.” Says it, and half a dozen workers file into the room. A mixed crew of co-workers, all sexes, all sizes, aged between twenty-five and fifty, but without a single gray hair. Michael will add his ones to the mix. Lianne recommends Jamaican, fifth flier from the left far up, which should go well with the banana that’s surely mashed in his backpack. Angel has a spare charger with a five-meter reach. San as the most senior person explains his task: Build what’s on the walls, not the menu wall of course, a chuckle, her brows pitch up a roof. A second crew gathers material, broadly speaking, Michael may have to make a crayon-drawn brick wall from tetra paks. Michael’s celebrity employer, who didn’t think it necessary to introduce himself (what’s his name again?), gives his new hire a golden-yellow smile and holds out a release form bearing his yellow-golden monogram (still no clue) to document Michael’s consent that his image and likeness may be used in the employer’s (whose production company, too, allows no inferences about his name) publications. Where did the pen in the change pocket go? Another outstretched object from Michael’s employer protrudes from his royal-mailbox figure. L-A-R-R-Y spells the pen, in cursive capitals, in gold, and it’s Michael’s cue. “Larry Caucasian,” he says to the release form and the stylized smile under the monogram beams back congratulating. Larry thanks him for his autograph, asks if he would like a blow job, too, and extends another two hands - he should have become a boxer instead of a comedian - that shake Michael playfully, whose frozen smirk of perplexion only starts to melt as wall-mounted camera has already averted its head again. Lianne holds her smartphone in front of his head still fixed in place and winds back thirty seconds of a live stream. Blow job, skewed, goofy grin, the golden host regales his audience with blinking teeth and a wink. 
“You’re basically free to do what you want, seeing that there’s blueprints for literally everything up there. If you can take bad jokes and lukewarm food, you’ll be fine. Two more things: If you build something good, don’t expect to get credit for it.” What’s with the counting fingers in Michael’s face lately? “Don’t contest him for his audience.” Extra hours pay off, adds Angel, holding a third finger to Michael’s face, “generously”.
If Angel’s cable is working, all sockets of the power strip are dead. “NO WAY! SOMEBODY MUST’VE PULLED THE PLUG UPSTAIRS!” With the whirring tip of his power drill, Angel points to another open hatch in the ceiling, that rolls out its orange NYM-J tongue yawning. Michael shines Angel’s flashlight into the dark hole to check its teeth. Gingivitis on his mind. Sergej should have brushed and gargled. Michael prefers the term gum disease, an unfortunate dysphemism for becoming a flabby Mister-Fantastic being, not conservative but not fluid either, merely escaping every pinning remark, every need to state oneself specifically, but still with a well confined, defined shape at a standstill. Dental hygiene is the only area where his influence on Sergej has been an unquestionable success. From a four-figure distance, being a better role-model has been challenging otherwise. To compensate for his lack of actuators he has been focusing on his perceptors, on not missing a crucial piece of information in his son’s development. The five imaginary cities of Sergej are Aquaria (no water, only the blue bubble rising and bursting in the -qua sound that Sergej liked), Metropolia (which was also a name used by Michael in his childhood, which in turn made him wonder if ancient greek was inherently stately-sounding or whether it was the success of round neoclassicist white men with shiny bald spots and cigar handles that children assumed cities to be named like this), Sergis (Erikson stage four), Gheffodoodle (the abstract phase that coincided with his wish for a pet), Yetten (when he had gained access to the internet’s name generators). Bank Holiday Blue, though that’s not imaginary, all too real, as every bankholidian phenomenon, the void, the man of a thousand voices, it all felt real enough to send Sergej shivering under the covers. The extension cable’s origin must be found at all cost, the subtle resistance of the socket welcoming the plug with its plastic embrace must reunite father and son to give each other comfort and company.
All parents are out. The barn lies still, no event has been scheduled to temporarily fill up the spaces between the shells of suppose-steel with representations of organic matter. The faces of the cars’ fronts feign to keep Sergej and Paul company. Resolute shooting brake, gullible sedan. A portly hearse marks Sergej’s last addition to the garbage collection, that is slowly transitioning from purposeful garbage to garbage as garbage, garbage squared so to say, as the available subsidies have been allocated to another of the art collective’s projects - a giant in-game incinerator used in a number of elaborate rituals and performances. The two digital orphans are strolling around the hangar defying the parental no-barrels-in-the-barn rule. Confetti of lead shot and last week’s festoons swirl around them as they fire into the air above them. Sergej has earned fifty euros in two hours, he has a gift for defeating parents. Blood money, dirty money. His hands feel soiled, every other step he puts down his gamepad to chafe his hands on the heavy cotton of his shirt. Sometimes, under the sedative flickering black-and-white graphics of the fight, the memory of Michael’s face forces itself on him. A face that is precious, because Michael keeps it hidden, and at the same time horrifying, because it is distorted, crying, because of him, Sergej. Memory has resharpened the features that Sergej must’ve noticed only hazily at the time, because his father ran out the room, pushing away his own mother in a move that seemed theatrical, but was in fact merely necessary to direct the force of his impulsive turn towards the exit and not of the glass cabinet. He has seen that particular face of his father’s since then, and Sergej is glad about that. 
When no hue of the garlands remains against the gray ceiling, Paul turns his nozzle slowly and with a mischievous glance at Sergej towards the polished hearse, expecting him to be affected by the phasing ring of the blow against the bending would-be-metal that heralds the destruction of his works. But Sergej only shrugs in front of the monitor, taking aim himself at a cabriolet’s anorexic hood. Grandma’s balcony offered an ample armory of beech nuts in early fall with the passing cars below in range if he flicked right. Mom was gone and Michael and Sergej, too, should have been on their way. Not that it was crucial that he spent the night at home, that was his view, and Wanda would have welcomed her grandson staying for the night, too. If Michael would have just let him have it. Go home, relax, spend some time on your own, smoking, playing, masturbating, whatever dads do when they’re alone. Sergej hadn’t fought their power game any different than before, it must’ve been the proverbial straw, like the repeated beech nut hitting the same commuter hood at the same spot over and over eventually results in a fine hole at an angle that will testify to the habitual exceedance of the applicable speed limit by seven kilometers an hour. Husks shaped like the iconic banana peel that only appears in comic books and cartoons but never IRL, because, as an Austrian polymath once pointed out, humankind has been erring in which end to peel. Michael didn’t fail to hit it, that figurative peel that Sergej threw before him, that upended his dad in an hitherto unseen way, tears showing before he made it out the room. Sergej has always been lean, but sturdy, called bookend on the field not only because he brought a book to soccer camp, but because he resists the push of two, plastic teeth biting the cinder pitch. The physical resistance of his son needed a violence that Michael wouldn’t have ever considered, if Wanda’s repeated call to drop the quote unquote patriarchal terror wouldn’t have turned him into just that: A choleric brute, mustache bristling, teint alcoholic. He pulled his son with a force that a split second later surprised him enough to let go again, sending his son into a sheet of polished metal that caved under the impact, leaving a human-shaped dent that similarly had only been seen in cartoons and comics before. Sergej didn’t cry, though, Michael did.
The bank holidian damage model leaves lotus-flower imprints on the cars where they shoot them. When enough lotus flowers embossed into the suppose-steel, the damaged area shatters into fragments that slowly, slow as honey, seep into the ground. In the not too distant future, bank holiday will develop its destruction physics significantly in order to realistically depict decay, a feature that will succeed in driving a renaissance of the game after it will have gone somewhat stale and that will send it into a loop of renewal and decay that has yet to be broken.
Michael never went for cigarettes and never came back, he was either too much or too little of a coward for doing that. Also he didn’t smoke, for the same reason. He sort of faded out of Sergej’s life after the metal-sheet-incident. Stayed out late working the ambitious’ shift from nine to nine, for anything more escapist he was either too much or too little of a coward. On the weekends, when even the most ambitious of his colleagues took some time off, he argued with his mother for hours on end, as Sergej reconstructed one Sunday, looking through his father’s text and call log when he couldn’t find any games installed. A few lines luring his eyes with the familiar six-letter combination of his name stung with the realization that his father had been hurt by his behavior, the further sampling of the message history though soon began to bore him with pent-up, manifold accusations against Wanda that did not concern him. Michael escaped the family apartment like a genie from a bottle, his presence became less and less, and he increasingly vanished into the ether of radio waves that continued to bring Sergej to bed, including occasional bedtime reading.
In the end, the collection proves too extensive to obliterate in a single session. Although, looking east, no car has survived. A deserted, badly-swept hall, like a nostalgically mourning Rust-Belt site. Sergej regrets nothing, Paul has vanished in mid-shot, logging off abruptly, as if the Berlin side of the globe had been erased like the eastern half of the barn’s content, a lotus flower blossoming in its place to maintain balance. Out of curiosity, Sergej picks up the receiver and dials his mother’s number. The dial tone proves his vision wrong.
“Gigi.” 
“Hi, mom.” 
“All set?” 
“I’m getting there.” 
“Good.” 
She’s doing something on the side, the sound makes Sergej think of a formula one race. In interviews, Fee prefaces her ability of effortless multitasking as a gift independent of her gender. 
“I like that they call making paper “schöpfen”, it’s got this transcendental ring to it, like, how did it magically go from liquid to solid.” 
“Are the Russians gone yet?” 
“They were Tajiks. Yeah, they left yesterday. I caught them sweeping when I got home, just for you to know.“ Outside of the barn the sun rises, commuters on the edge of the remaining half-globe plunge into the void where the industrial park used to be, because they don’t see the abyss in the glaring light. 
“They left you a present. Wanna know what it is? It’s one of those neat zoroastrian caps. Like a bucket hat. Actually the original bucket hat. Doesn’t get more bucketty than that.” 
“Cool.” 
“What do you say?” 
“It’s not like they’ll hear it.” 
“Zoroaster hears it.” 
“Thanks.” 
“If you don’t wear it, I will. And I’ll pick you up from practice with it.” She’s wearing her headset. Sergej can hear it from the sound of her biting her nails. 
“Everything okay, Gigi?” 
“Sure, just wanted to check in.” One of those sentences that are to be adopted without questioning, like ID cards and saying bless you. “Anyway, I gotta go, mom. I’ll see you soon, alright.”
If anything, Larry Caucasian has the air of a rip-off cell plan mascot, otherwise he has been eluding all attempts of pigeon-holing. He fishes for Michael coming up the ladder with a cordial n-word. His stage name is by no means unsubstantiated. With the grotesque enthusiasm of a quest giver in a computer game that witnesses the player’s arrival mum and curious only to greet her in bursting surprise once she presses the respective button, Larry dismisses recent cautionary advice and pulls his employee close to bump shoulders. “Habib, you dig Pizza?” This is but another thin crust of fringe benefits that hides the hostile swirl of bloody-knuckle competition? A likable DIY-facade for the cold steel-and-glass core. Pouring sand in Michael’s eyes like Pizza flour, organic soft wheat stone-milled zero zero that forms perfect bubbles under the cheesy crunch, on the house, brother, everything in here is on me. “That wall down there ain’t for show. I want you to go crazy, verstanden? What are you up to, Michael, my man?” Got his names down, gotta give him that. Michael lifts the extension cable like a dead boa with his foot. “Ride on, Michael! Power to the people!” Fortunately, Larry doesn’t wait for a courtesy laugh but turns to San, who is asking for details on a crudely drawn blueprint of an underslung crane. Across the room another hole in the ceiling beckons Michael, the orange cable rides loopings around the ladder’s rungs. 
“Michael!” San is satisfied, and Larry waves Michael close, closer, “nothing to be afraid of.”
“Tough times, eh? Tough times. Look, Michael, I can see you have a kid at home. You look like a good father.” It’s probably on his employee profile. 
“Anytime you need something, you come see me, ‘right?” Says it and holds out a fifty-euro (!) note. One time at the old office, Michael dropped a coffee mug from a seventh floor window. He paid for the beautiful spectacle of the coffee painting great waves in the lower airspace with lasting could-have-been visions of freak-accident victims with an inset of his passport photo for the manhunt. Why does Larry have foreign currency on him? The ladder’s concerning creak makes a stable thought to hold on to. 
Lianne is upstairs in near complete darkness, occasional flecks from her screwdriver’s target light punctuate the red mood-light-glow humming from her smartphone. She must have been smoking, her portable ashtray with her initials engraved offset her second-hand woodchopper outfit. She could have gone on a date with him, judging presumably, if they wouldn’t have been in a state of temporary hubris (her) slash disillusionment (him). It would have felt right, until Michael would have fooled himself into saying something like “oh look, we have matching phone covers”, or she would have made a rousing case for constructive journalism, which is a red rag to him. In the low light of the room she can make out that he is mildly beautiful as long as she sees to the maintenance of a constant stream of busy thoughts that keeps her mind from seeing the Dummies-Man in him. She lights another cigarette, adding its slowly pulsing glow to the room’s constellation, and watches Michael tracing the cable to the occupied socket. “You can unplug that.” His drill is on four green leds, but sliding the battery into the drill’s socket recalls loading a space blaster and is too satisfying to forgo the opportunity. He imagines Lianne smiling knowingly in the darkness behind the culminant cigarette glow. 
“Drilling and screwing is ninety percent of the work in here unless you’re mad enough to trust Larry’s flimsy bench saw.” Is she hitting on him? 
“When I was young, I used to log trees with a drill.” He sounds like a geezer, sounds like a creep.
“Two holes and the tree’s down in a year, four and it’ll last three months max. It’s not like I was killing it, I was only affecting its lifetime. Since then I can’t help but wonder how my actions are affecting the lifespans of other beings. I sure hope I can offset that one at least.” The cigarette. Tires screech with the one-eighty of the advance and, alas, her reaction again is hidden behind the orange glow. 
“He’s not as bad as you may think at first.” 
“Who?” 
“Larry?” 
“Why should he?” Because he dealt in distopias. Because he wanted disciples, not partners in crime. Because what he sold as independence was actually ineptitude to discuss. His quirky home-improvement videos cultivated a conspiratorial undertone that chimed in with any deep state dissection that came before and after in his viewers’ cue. Probably Larry himself had had a more clearly defined image of the enemy at some point in the past. But with the success of his DIY antics, the diverse nature of his fans posed a challenge to the maintenance of his stereotypes. 
“It’s hard to stay an antisemite if you get dozens of home-made presents for rosh hashanah. So now he’s left with all that subdued aggression that made his videos popular, but he loves his viewers just too much to pick on some of them.” 
“Beautiful. A demagogue with a yo-yo.“ 
“Also, as I said, he tips generously.” In forex. The platitudes Lianne uses to describe Larry put Michael off, even though he could use the gratuities of someone who’s quote unquote not in it for the money. His phone has charged enough to boot, and the unique romantic feature of the single dad becomes an excuse for cutting short Lianne’s song of praise. 
The contact’s picture of Sergej on a wildly swinging coil spring rocker brings back anxious visions of all the domestic disasters that might have happened within the last three quarters of an all in all unwary hour. After some silent seconds of establishing the outgoing connection through several layers of cardboard, scrap metal and wood, the phone line shakes its head vigorously, leaving Michael with another set of doomsday scenarios before his inner eye. “He’ll fork over hundreds if you have a tear-jerking story to tell. Not only if the cameras run.” The call grasps at nothing. 
In the first days of sleeping away from home, when he still afforded a cherrywood hotel room because there was still a slim chance that his flight would merely turn out a spontaneous vacation, Michael had grasped for Sergej in the visitor’s gap between the mattresses of his double bed. If that wasn’t tear-jerking, what was? Fee reported that Sergej had cried when it turned out that his father would not come back anytime soon, but when Michael called him, from the room’s phone at that, for added hollywood desperation, for service-fee indulgence, Sergej remained so composed that the conversation entered Michael’s top five of their most hurtful confrontations. That’s gotta be a Ben Franklin if he tells it to Larry. The American job market extended its open arms across the Atlantic and Michael browsed the virgin pages of his US passport like a baby album. The hotel room’s TV featured a near-complete cable lineup of US channels with conveniently sedating afternoon reality programs in the European wee hours. Picture-perfect worlds of products that would soon be available for him to purchase. Eventually, he opted for the New York branch of his employer to put the excruciating idleness between the required actions of various recruiting procedures to an end. Fishing on a decommissioned speedboat with the smoker’s-breath-sound of a laptop running as the only indication of passing time. Ten-thousand upvotes for the host’s generous remuneration of that story. 
His phone vibrates. Black teflon work jumpsuits with electric blue lining in twenty plus sizes for fully validated Freddy F employees. Another vibration. The number you have called is now available. Sergej answers with a tired but calm voice and Michael can barely contain his relief. 
“Bank holiday?” A yes with a pause that precedes it. 
“Don’t burn yourself out, ay? Can you stay on the line?” A door is slamming here or there. 
“Serge?” 
“Yes, I’ll stay on the line, dad.” Ex machina, the searchlight of a camera outshines the feeble 3.7 volt Orion’s belt. 
“Here we go. Better get ready.” Production sits in Houston, Texas. Nobody gets to see Larry’s joystick-wielding staff down south. They laugh and wear short cargos. Supposedly the microphones are only active if the camera’s red light indicates somebody’s watching. Larry’s everything but a fiend. 
“I made another progenitor. I think somebody spread the word that I can help people out.” Sergej is speaking in borrowed phrases, but it only makes his talk more familiar in Michael’s ears. Universal intimacy where there isn’t yet a familial one. 
“Let me present to you the new member of the family.” Universal intimacy for a global market. A bucket hat trailing a veil of curls over jewels and lycra grows from the hole in the floor. Michael is contractually required to dedicate his full attention to the host and employer, yet he needs another minute to make sure that Sergej is really alright. The shot-reverse-shot equipment of the room only leaves him his profile to withdraw to. Lianne comes to his rescue. 
“Daddy needs another quality minute with his son.” Larry Caucasian, proficient in the globally well-known vocabulary of the moving image, throws his hat in excitement and a dollar flutters to the ground from his head. 
“Let’s get these two on tape together. Little Michael, talk to us. We have a thousand viewers, who want to hear from you.” 
“I don’t think that is a good idea,” but again, the transmission is against Michael, clear as mountain air, it overrules the parental intermediary and passes Larry’s proposal on to the other end. “Can I, dad?” 
“I don’t think he wants to.” 
“Ah, don’t be shy, Little Michael”, “Sergej.”, “we need to know the boy behind the man. We need to know what makes Michael here get up in the morning.” Pluralis majestatis. Lianne pouts behind Larry’s back, snapping her hand like a beak. It’s only words, it’s only voice. Noone is going to see Sergej, nobody will capture gifs of his nostrils talking. Snap, snap, a pinkish hatchling gaping for pocket money. 
“Fine.” Michael holds the device out to Larry. One spot then we’re back. The box set of Larry Caucasian’s latest pre-pandemic stage show is a prepper’s delight of storm lighters, moonwalker’s nutrition, and multi-fibre apparel. Box sets, the swiss army knife for the e-commerce age. The future salutes you with a box set, Michael. It’s packaging solves your rent problems, too, as you’ve undoubtedly seen in the darker corners of your quarter. Larry’s shaved arm wraps around his sweaty back. 
“The number.” 
“The number?” 
“I need the number.” 
“What number?” 
“This is not a call-in show, buddy. I call.” The number. Michael states the access code to his son and realizes that he is still blocking the line. The box set comes at a steel-cheap ninety-four ninety-five. Holy, does Sergej sound young on the line. Of course he has heard about Larry Caucasian, what does Michael know? 
“What are you doing right now, my man?” 
“Playing.” Larry Caucasian claims he can make a brick wall conversational. 
“Alright! What are you playing?” 
“Bank Holiday.” Only Larry himself is quicker with his burst of excitement than his editors, who send air horn sounds through the room. 
“Where you at, bro? We wanna see your base.” 
This is a dream come true for Sergej. He may not be the most outgoing of his age-mates, but how outgoing does one need to be in order to span the limited distance to the staring black marble clamped to the monitor. Until now, the parental moratorium on any globally visible streaming activities, that Michael and Fee decided on in one of their biweekly supervisory board meetings, Thursday noon slash evening, served with chamomile to soothe and cookies to sweeten bitter blame, has yet been unchallenged, save for the repeated lament that everyone else is allowed to. And indeed, a great number of casters the age of his son greet Michael in mute excitement when he detours across the usual platforms during the afternoon slumps. Mostly, he just leaves the grid of silent previews running until the mosaic transitions to the bright colors of in-game views. Watching the monumental designs of their bankholidian bases never stirred his interest, seeing that he could easily teleport his avatar to the given fortress slash villa slash seventh heavenly palace. Instead his curiosity is fixed on the reverse shot, looking out from the common bankholidian world into the tiny universes of hobby dens and playrooms. Marveling at the visual idiolects of IKEA shelf units wrapped in traditional fabrics, housing cookie jars with goods of buckwheat, tamarind, or cassava flour. Sometimes local fauna invades the field of view. A gecko bathes in the warmth of the background illumination. A tropical moth makes the light flicker and the streamer has to add an epilepsy warning below his watermark. The backward channel to Sergej stays blind for now, Houston only listens. Brick wall to faux plywood, Sergej begins to talk, begins to deliver a pretty proud lecture about how he designed his virtual supermarket. And an old acquaintance taps Michael’s shoulder, the feeling of unwilling antipathy towards his son, an old companion, who pulls Michael with him, they have some catching up to do, and Michael follows, eyes still fixed on Larry Caucasian, who, overjoyed, can hardly tame his muscle memory, that wants to send him running from shelf to shelf like a Super Toy Club contestant as he navigates around Sergej’s creation with his trembling index. Sergej enjoys the host’s rapture, but has difficulties keeping up with Larry’s jump-cut attention. Also, he evidently doesn’t know what a consultant does. “Look, it’d be fairly easy. You tell us what to build. You say: Dad, I think we should build a privy.” Shit makes for a cheap laugh. “And then your dad builds the privy.” Financial details will be discussed between Larry, Michael, Sergej, and Houston. Cut.
Only the lights have remained with Michael. Larry Caucasian is playing a game of Race the Riders with Angel and San, each of them rooting for the animated icon representing their delivery person’s progress. The game’s integration into Freddy F is in early alpha, if he’ll be riding again in a couple of weeks time Michael might have to stop dead in his tracks, too, every time an adversarial customer drops a virtual banana peel in his path. Lianne took her foam dish of rice and beans to the deserted lobby. The flood lamps have remained, Sergej has, too.
“So you are going to become a consultant.” Two glottal hums mean yes.
“Have you been thinking about what you want to do later?” Two glottal hums mean no.
“Come on, help me out here, I got sixty more screws to go.” 
“I will brush my teeth and I’ll be in bed before ten-thirty.” 
The holes that Angel has drilled in the soft, second-hand wood indulgently guide the screw like the kiddie rails at the bowling alley Sergej had invited his friends to for the last birthday party his father had joined in person. “Don’t act like you don’t know what I mean.”
Sergej claws into a parent’s knee-pit for a wreckful hold of its popliteus. “You know that I wanted to become a writer when I was your age? Travel or something, stories about volcanic belts and deep-sea fish with head lamps.” 
With forceful flips of his right, Sergej plays the action buttons like hand drums, his angry solo sparked by his father’s unsolicited nostalgia gets his avatar’s nails deep enough into the flesh and tissue of the parent it's fighting. The giant collapses onto its knees and the way to its vital targets is clear.
“Dad! I’m working, okay?” Michael would have sulked if it wasn’t for the uncannily satisfying spin of the spax in its hole. Only a certain age-appropriate disillusionment with quote unquote the youth, he feels. However, it’s not like Sergej doesn’t have dreams, goals. His predispositions and inclinations are visible to Michael, too, only that his father draws faulty conclusions, like his own baby-boomer grandparents did, that used to think in outdated categories of lifelong professions. Michael, too, falsely interprets the signs. The mall maps, the collecting, the silent sucking up of information that never fails to surprise Michael when it comes back wrapped as an argument in a fight. The average scholarly performance that may or may not be explained by his son’s tendency to be smart broodingly. Michael’s grandparents, maybe Wanda, too, would have imagined Sergej as an architect, engineer, or geographer. Michael in turn resolves around activities and sees his son building something, software is always an option, or product designer for Lego, a millennial's branded wilderness of imagination. But Sergej thinks about purpose, making little distinction between his own gains and other altruistic returns when it comes to anything beyond the candy drawer. And by now Michael would concur with his son’s approach, because even though he would get excited enough over some new web framework to privately invest in a never-to-be-redeemed online course, it has turned out he hasn’t been missing his former day-to-day one bit. Everything becomes repetitive, becomes tedious with time. Another screw turns hypnotically in its hole.
“Yes!” Cool spray hisses from the bottle cap.
“Patrick promised to give me twenty euros if I managed to procreate his 205-day-old and you know what?” Michael hums in tune with the purring screwdriver.
“I did it! He tried a million times already and I did it in an hour.”
“Cool.”
“He promised me twenty.”
“In what? Piggy-bank-cents? I thought he’s not allowed paper money?”
Akash doesn’t believe in cash and rather has his son move significant amounts of bank holiday’s in-game currency.
“But I can sell that for euros.”
“And the cars?” 
Sergej has already moved beyond his job translating cars from forgotten shelf-dusters to the bankholidian game world. “This is paying much more.”
It stings Michael that Sergej abandons the job that had still required some support from his old man, even if it was only his faded collection of storage media. But there’s nothing to argue with, especially since even if he lingers criminally, finishing the remaining forty screws won’t bring in more than nine dollars after taxes. 
“Don’t let the money take the fun out of it, though.”
“Twenty-three. Fifty tokens go for twenty-three euros.”
“I thought I could write for money. To be honest with you, I wasn’t all that sure about my choices when I finished my degree. I knew that I liked working with computers. I had a talent for working with them, too. Giving instructions to them felt like giving instructions to mom. To your grandma. But when I had finished studying, I felt some kind of lack of, let’s call it aesthetic sophistication, of something anyone would consider beautiful or vaguely artistic. In the town that I studied in, the presence of liberal arts majors was inescapable and hanging out with a lot of them made me think that even with the financial demands of a child, a frugal, creative profession would fit my life more than one in an office with other computer science majors that proudly insisted that coding was an art in itself.”
Penny-jar broker Sergej waits for his sell order to go through. “Why didn’t you work as a writer then?”
Because of you, Sergej. Because you robbed me of the courage I needed for making the change. “Don’t know.” Cross-head screw set like a full stop.
The transmission swallows the sound of the water the bathtub is collecting in its beak. Sergej steps into the unnoticed bath, his shoulder-long hair fans out like a jellyfish as he leans back, closes like a clam as he sits up, his right erect and glowing like a lighthouse as he keeps the advertised splashproof receiver above the foamy surface. One time in Turkey he had broken his arm and he had had to bathe and swim with his hand cast in L-shape sticking out like he was taking a bus. Five volts in the bathtub might make a soothing massage like mom’s long fingernails on his scalp, but let’s better be safe than sorry. Michael’s aftershave gives a metallic sting to the bath water. Do something about the nuclear water in New Mexico, do something for the protesters at Atomic Gardens, that’s what he would like to do. What exactly doesn’t matter. Everything must be directed. Michael can ramble on about the beauty of his pure functions and forget that he only put them to work on zoomable previews of greeting card templates, Sergej is submerged in his own bubble bath, watching the clouds of foam pass on the water’s surface. Like nuclear cumulus in a wide western sky. Like the yellowish scum collecting in the nooks of the quay walls down at the harbor. How can someone blame Sergej for rejecting his father who only thinks about the world after having clocked out. After-work beers with collective self-pity and fair-trade peanuts. These days Sergej feels like he needs to reduce himself to less. Not only because of the money that he, too, knows is running out. Not only because of the ecological footprint that needs shrinking. His body feels like too much to handle these days, sudden growth, new parts appearing. Sometimes he wants to go back to single senses, like he imagines a fetus to feel. One way in, one way out, unary-function-fetus. Existing as an ear, an ear only. His auricle surfaces amidst the foam, the cell phone on the tub’s edge crackles. He turns his head until only his nose sticks out and blows like a whale. Then comes the eye, emerging from the waters on the forehead’s hillside, a solitary island foam-arisen, but the foam stings, burns unbearably in the isolated sensory organ. 
“Ow!” 
“Serge? What’s going on?” 
“I got soap in my eye.” 
“Get the milk, take off your shirt, get in the bathtub, and pour some in your eye.” 
“Ow.” 
“It’s okay, it’s nothing serious.” 
“Ouch.” 
“Just pour the milk. I’ll clean up the kitchen later.” It’ll be okay. Drowsy Michael, a mellow high of naive optimism muffles his perception. Is it bathwater or milk pouring from a jug on the kitchen floor? The wooly heat in the wooden space holds him like a uterus. The planks moan with every screw tightening, with every one of Michael’s steps like savoring men in public saunas. The room is windowless but it must be sunny beyond the bark of the building.
Michael once knew someone that worked for an autonomous car company, and all he had to do for his job was being the scapegoat for trolley problems. Michael knew someone, who was paid to shush the audience of a papal minor basilica in ten languages via megaphone. She could call for silence and respect in English, Italian, German, French, Spanish, Russian, Japanese, Chinese, Croatian, and, she had worked in tax evasion before the crash, Malay. Nobody that Michael knew or knows is paid to work under his or her child. Once in a while, news about underage employers hit the lifestyle sections, illustrated with portraits of the quote unquote gameboy goalgetters, a nickname as obsolete and ignorantly imposed as the minors’ disguises, that invoke images of management in the prawn cocktail period that even the parents rarely witnessed. Chocolate cigars and prestige brands’ kids lines. Little red rotary club and the pup of Wall Street. The legal guardians smirk behind their wards’ back pocketing hard cash while the quote unquote Etch-A-Sketch-entrepreneurs are granted the liberties of ordering hot chocolate at will and having the intern carry bags as they shop at Neiman Marcus under the benevolent parental eye, liberties more age-appropriate than the common executive fringe benefits of sexual misconduct and tax fraud. Sergej doesn’t have the air of a prodigy, Sergej has the air of a smallest common denominator, that took him a couple of nightly video calls to wrap his head around. Sergej beautifully dissolves in group fotos, within a healthy circle of friends suspended between the poles of the fat and the bullies. He doesn’t fit the role of the wunderkind, yet he assumes the self-infatuated diction and bossing arrogance in no time. 
“A what?” 
“Telescope.” There hasn’t been much progress lately, but at the tip of Sergej’s virtual, vertical supermarket the skeletal socket of his observatory is already visible. Curious aliens looking back into the terrestrial eye will marvel at the cheap essentials and weekly bargains of Sergej’s bankholidian discounter under the microscope. 
“How the hell do you figure me building a telescope in here? From bottle bases?” But Larry Caucasian loves challenges, his audience not less, and the NSF is grateful for some cross-promotion. Raining tips grow whatevers. 
“Have you been flossing today?” They are back to their private conversation, now that another jobsite has called for Larry, and although Michael’s employee evaluation sheets may soon pass through his son’s hands, dental hygiene remains a field of his own discretionary competence. 
“Yes.” No challenging remark, pure data. Michael expected Sergej to fall back into his old dismissiveness now that he has public authorization. V-shaped recovery, a dip into arrogance, now they’re back to monosyllabic coexistence. 
“I think it’s gonna be a cool observatory. The one you’re gonna build.” Michael is unsure if it’s filial affection or the motivating employer talking. He’s climbing ladder after ladder traversing rooms and rooms and rooms, empty rooms, countless levels of sideshow rooms like in an oligarch’s palace. The last level must be thirty floors from street level or more. The neighboring offices as seen through the walls’ cracks read upper management. The wind whistles a tune from a Lexus commercial. The construction of windows is discouraged at this height, only a skylight wouldn’t compromise the structural stability of the wooden tower. As Michael drills a hole into the ceiling as a setup for his jigsaw, the percussion shakes the walls and makes the suspension of the billboard their highrise is attached to chime in cat-like with the wailing sounds from the video wall across the street. Two moons, one round, one wrapped around the curving glass of the facade, shed their blue light into the attic floor as the sawed-out plywood round falls into the room. The sky seems closer than the underground carpark at this height, and if his bandwidth would have allowed, Michael would have added video to their call. 
“I can see why you want an observatory.” Sergej hums knowingly. 
“You should go on the roof, it’s beautiful now.” Take the key, take the flashlight, shoes, although the bitumen should still be warm and sticky from the afternoon sun. Son and dad, each looking up into a cloudless open flank of one of the moons.
“We should cut an observatory into the living room ceiling.” The security deposit is lost, anyway. 
“Are you going to come home soon?” Could it really be affection speaking? 
“I think I can call it a day.” Larry Caucasian is overjoyed with the observatory. Somebody from the community offers a physicist’s advice on the optimal focal length of the ocular slash skylight. Stars fade behind the dual moon. Five stars for the employee.

